Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [July](./westkarana.md)
# Site maintenance...

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-07-12 13:50:32*

I just upgraded to the newest version of Wordpress, so maybe it will stop bugging me about using an old version. I also stopped the random header banner changing. I always thought the actual image of West Karana would be the best one for this blog... it just looks so tranquil and peaceful... y'know, except for the huge spiders, supersized beetles, giants and werewolves, it's not a bad little place.

## Comments!

**[Cow Nose the 50 Pound Cat](http://cownosethe50poundcat.blogspot.com)** writes: What? Nooo! I like how it changes! I can't tell you how many times I have looked at it and thought to myself, "Man that's cool, if only I could have something like that for my blog." Please think about changing it back!

---

**TheRemedy** writes: It is indeed pretty but I do enjoy the random blog header more.

---

**jsquirrel** writes: I miss the othmir already!

---

**[Kanad](http://shatteredblog.wordpress.com)** writes: Throw in my vote for a random header... I love that pic from the Plane of Water :) All your EQ pics are great!

---

**Egat** writes: Teh Swarm! Oobnotpervery Whaterverhergnomishnamewas!! Griffons! Sitting near the druid ring, being attacked by a bear and having that mean druid NPC kill me for it! Hmm, wait, all of these were North Karana. Oops.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: I used to have a picture of that druid ring as one of my headers. I started out with West Karana only, then all the Karanas, then only the old world, then all of EQ :P

ANYWAY, I didn't think anyone would care. The rotating headers are back, and I have added our Vox kill to them :)

---

**TheRemedy** writes: YAY!

---

