Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [July](./westkarana.md)
# Save the Middleman!

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-07-22 15:03:33*

Rumor has it that The Middleman, probably the best SF/comedy on TV this season, is in danger! Not of cancellation, but of being restricted to just one season. Creator Javier Grillo-Marxuach writes on [The Middleblog](http://themiddleblog.livejournal.com/32682.html) that despite stellar network support, ratings haven't been great, and they have decided to end The Middleman at episode 12, and to go out with a bang.

If you don''t watch The Middleman, you should. And if you DO watch, but via torrent or something, well, watch it on TV (I do, now), or watch it online -- ABC Family streams each show after it airs, and people watching via the web in that way definitely support the show.

It's way better to support these shows while they are still on the air, than to discover them on DVD years later and ask, plaintively, why they don't make shows like THAT anymore! Just what I have to say about Firefly...

## Comments!

**Pat Zurek** writes: I'm not interested in The Middleman, but I remember reading somewhere that the usage habits of cable TV subscribers are in fact monitored somehow. So merely switching to the show renders your vote towards it. Can anyone collaborate?

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Seems like there would be some privacy implications but heck, I guess I watch it as it airs just in case :)

---

**[Openedge1](http://simple-n-complex.blogspot.com)** writes: After episode 3 and the droning speak of our Heroine, I gave up.
Neat idea, bad effects, and lackluster acting.

Sorry Tipa.

Good ideas go bad, just like MMO's (I think we can name one or two of those lately)

---

**Ender** writes: I love the middleman they need to run it for ten years I WILL WATCH IT!!! I thought that they should know that. We should hold a rally to keep it on the air.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Ratings will keep it on the air :) I watch it with my son, who isn't that interested in it. He'll stick around when the Middleman is dating Lacey, but once it gets to the SF premise of the day, wanders off.

I wonder if they should focus even more on the 'real life of superheroes' angle?

---

