Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2007](/posts/2007/westkarana.md) > [August](./westkarana.md)
# Vista update: Maybe I'll finally be able to play EverQuest again...

*Posted by Tipa on 2007-08-08 13:13:23*

According to [this post](http://arstechnica.com/news.ars/post/20070807-vista-performance-and-compatibility-packs-released.html) over at Ars Technica, Vista will be pushing a couple of updates that should, among other things, make games work better under Vista.

I haven't been able to play EverQuest (1) since I got my Vista laptop -- it just refuses to get past the patcher. It's clearly crashing when EQ tries to change video modes, something that works fine on every other game, but not EQ. The update claims to fix a bug in nVidia laptop cards (mine has an 8600 in it). So... maybe I'll be able to play EQ again without having to take my Linux box offline to reboot it into Windows XP, which I have installed just for things like this. And 2-boxing.

Anyway, here's hoping. I haven't reformatted my laptop yet, just because I feel strongly I'll end up with a dead laptop missing drivers not available on my Windows XP disk. But if this patch doesn't work, I won't have much of a choice. I'll just have to be sure and remember to make a CD with the XP SATA drivers before I do anything irreversible.
## Comments!

**Egat** writes: I recently installed the new Nvidea drivers and have managed to get EQ working flawlessly on my vista / 8800 GTX machine. Have you tried these new drivers yet? Prior to the install I had frequent blue screen crashes while playing EQ and toward the end it wouldn't even start. All's good now though!

Hope to see ya in EQ again some time, I miss you.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Windows Update doesn't give me these new changes, which is too bad, since I have the 8600 GT card they're talking about, and am very hopeful it will fix the problem.

I saw you left CE :( What guild are you with now?

---

**Egat** writes: Ring of Destiny, hanging out helping a bunch of people get caught up to modern EQ. It's nice to feel needed again.

---

**quimbius** writes: it would be nice to say boo to Tipa again , I know pasty hi elves freak you out. I'm sad CE is not an active raid guild anymore, I giess it leaves Resi as the top original emarr raiding guild now. I don't see enuf of the old UNC peeps around anymore.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: @Quimbius -- you may be the last UNC person who still plays EQ1. But hey, for what it's worth, I still wake up in the middle of the night, screaming about the pasty white elves coming for me :) And I still remember that day so, so long ago, grouping in Eastern Wastes and killing anything that moved on four legs. Or two, for that matter.

---

**Noffin** writes: I still wake up in the middle of the night , screaming about the cliff an unnamed halfling ran me off of :p

/hug Tipa

/wave Quimbius

I just haven't had the time to play EQ1 as much as I like anymore and been playing a few other games with Bridgecrusher as of lately.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Noffers! What games are you playing now? Still in VG?

---

