Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [September](./westkarana.md)
# Guitar Hero World Tour set list!

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-09-12 15:27:30*

God, I miss Rock Band so much.

When I started working for Massively, my son had just joined the Marines, and nights were quiet and free of any family obligations or having to make dinner (I eat mostly steamed rice and vegetables when I'm by myself). Every evening while the rice was cooking, I'd sit down with Rock Band, go online, and duel people on drums on HARD. THAT was a workout. I bought a mike stand so I could two-box, singing and guitar.

Then my son got kicked out of the Marines. My son is a devoted Xbox Live fan, so suddenly quiet nights were shattered by yelling and cursing at all hours. I finally had to banish him and the Xbox from the living room into his bedroom. And that was the end of Rock Band for me.

Now he and his Xbox are going off to college, and I have a PS3 that I don't play games on.

Dude, I'm getting the band back together.

Although, it's just me.

Rock Band 2 this month, Guitar Hero World Tour next month, buy instruments for one and they will work with the other so of COURSE I'll be getting both (but the instruments are going to be RB2, since it comes out first).

Giant Bomb has [the complete set list for GHWT](http://www.giantbomb.com/news/guitar-hero-world-tour-soundtrack-revealed/231/). There's some good stuff on it. And some boring stuff.

· 311 - “Beautiful Disaster”
· 30 Seconds To Mars - “The Kill”
· Airbourne - “Too Much Too Young” -- doesn't really prevent colds, it turns out.
. The Allman Brothers Band - “Ramblin' Man” -- one of the songs the rock band I was in in college played. The lead guitarist had this thing for southern rock.
· Anouk - “Good God”
· The Answer - “Never Too Late”
· At The Drive-In - “One Armed Scissor”
· Beastie Boys - “No Sleep Till Brooklyn” -- looking forward to this one.
· Beatsteaks - “Hail to the Freaks”
· Billy Idol - “Rebel Yell” -- drunken frat boy fave
· Black Label Society - “Stillborn”
· Black Rebel Motorcycle Club - “Weapon of Choice”
· blink-182 - “Dammit”
· Blondie - “One Way or Another” -- kind of a boring song. How about that one where Debbie Harry raps?
· Bob Seger & The Silver Bullet Band - “Hollywood Nights” -- *yawn*
· Bon Jovi - “Livin’ On A Prayer” -- Memories of this from American Idol still too fresh, these scars take time to heal.
· Bullet For My Valentine - “Scream Aim Fire” -- dunno the song but I like the band name and the title.
· Coldplay - “Shiver” -- hey, one for the kiddies.
· Creedence Clearwater Revival - “Up Around The Bend” -- hey, one for the old folks.
· The Cult - “Love Removal Machine” -- hey, one for my sister.
· Dinosaur Jr. - “Feel The Pain” -- hey, one for ME finally.
· The Doors - “Love Me Two Times” -- scene of Val Kilmer as Jim Morrison singing this song while getting a bj in the movie, still too fresh in my mind.
· Dream Theater - “Pull Me Under” -- OMG I LOVE THIS SONG! It always reminds me of Disneyland, because I first heard it on the radio while we were driving around Anaheim.
· The Eagles - “Hotel California” -- *yawn*
· The Enemy - “Aggro” -- needs to learn Aggro Management.
· Filter - “Hey Man, Nice Shot” -- thanks, dude
· Fleetwood Mac - “Go Your Own Way” -- finally, I get to be Stevie Nicks, Mick Fleetwood and Lindsay Buckingham... all at once!
· Foo Fighters - “Everlong” -- always fun to play the Foos
· The Guess Who - “American Woman” -- omg fifth grade flashback
· Hush Puppies - “You're Gonna Say Yeah!” -- and clap my hands!
· Interpol - “Obstacle 1”
· Jane's Addiction - “Mountain Song” -- my fingers are already hurting
· Jimi Hendrix - “Purple Haze (Live)” -- is this where I burn the guitar controller?
· Jimi Hendrix - “The Wind Cries Mary” -- okay no cynicism. I like this song.
· Jimmy Eat World - “The Middle” -- omg flashback to the Mirage EQ Memories video
· Joe Satriani - “Satch Boogie” -- okay singer, here comes your tambourine solo
· Kent - “Vinternoll2”
· Korn - “Freak On A Leash”
· Lacuna Coil - “Our Truth”
· Lenny Kravitz - “Are You Gonna Go My Way” -- no, you should go YOUR own way.
· Linkin Park - “What I've Done” -- dunno the song, but I'm betting it sounds like the two I have heard.
· The Living End - “Prisoner of Society”
· Los Lobos - “La Bamba” -- I liked these guys back when.
· Lost Prophets - “Rooftops (A Liberation Broadcast)” -- dunno this one but again, cool title
· Lynyrd Skynyrd - “Sweet Home Alabama (Live)” -- somewhere, Neil Young is getting mad.
· Mars Volta - “L'Via L'Viaquez”
· MC5’s Wayne Kramer - “Kick Out The Jams” -- I loved Blue Oyster Cult's cover of this song. BTW, where's BOC on this set list?
· Metallica - “Trapped Under Ice” -- painful Jumper flashback
· Michael Jackson - “Beat It” -- must be played standing at a 60 degree angle.
· Modest Mouse - “Float On” -- cool, indie rock.
· Motörhead - “Overkill”
· Muse - “Assassin” -- BTW, where's Throwing Muses on this set list?
· Negramaro - “Nuvole e Lenzuola”
· Nirvana - “About a Girl (Unplugged)” -- plug her back in
· No Doubt - “Spiderwebs” -- they sound so dated these days
· NOFX - “Soul Doubt”
· Oasis - “Some Might Say” -- which reminds me, why no Beatles? That'd REALLY rock.
· Ozzy Osbourne - “Crazy Train” -- have to admit, getting tired of Oz on these games.
· Ozzy Osbourne - “Mr. Crowley”
· Paramore - “Misery Business” -- LOVED their song "Crush" on DLC for RB. Looking forward to this.
· Pat Benatar - “Heartbreaker” -- GHWT rocks the 80s!
· R.E.M. - “The One I Love” -- and 90s!
· Radio Futura - “Escuela De Calor”
· Rise Against - “Re-Education Through Labor” -- should be interesting
· Sex Pistols - “Pretty Vacant” -- pretty easy
· Silversun Pickups - “Lazy Eye” -- you think I like wearing glasses?
· Smashing Pumpkins - “Today” -- only on Halloween
· Steely Dan - “Do It Again” -- if they're gonna mine my high school musical memories, could they at least do Dire Straits?
· Steve Miller Band - “The Joker” -- another drunken frat boy song
· Sting - “Demolition Man (Live)”
· The Stone Roses - “Love Spreads”
· Stuck In The Sound - “Toy Boy”
· Sublime - “Santeria” -- this is how you do ska without sounding dated
· Survivor - “Eye of the Tiger” -- and this is how you do rock and sound incredibly dated
· System of a Down - “B.Y.O.B.”
· Ted Nugent - “Stranglehold” -- played on the machine gun controller
· Ted Nugent’s Original Guitar Duel Recording -- I hated GH3's stupid duels
· Tokio Hotel - “Monsoon”
· Tool - “Parabola” -- Tool set! My daughter rejoices.
· Tool - “Schism”
· Tool - “Vicarious”
· Trust - “Antisocial”
· Van Halen - “Hot For Teacher” -- can anyone but David Lee Roth sing this without looking silly?
· Willie Nelson - “On The Road Again” -- puff and pass, dude
· Wings - “Band on the Run” -- now they're really going back. Is this the oldest song they have ever had on Guitar Hero? No, I guess the Hendrix stuff is older. But see, Hendrix was before my time (amazingly). This song, I remember when it came out. Well, I guess Paul McCartney is as close as we're gonna get to the Beatles.
· Zakk Wylde’s Original Guitar Duel Recording -- hate duels.

## Comments!

**TheRemedy** writes: Just for kicks... out of the two set lists, which is your favorite?

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Rock Band 2 has Jethro Tull doing "Aqualung". Why are we having this conversation?

JETHRO. FUGGING. TULL.

'nuff said.

---

**[Sente](http://adingworld.wordpress.com)** writes: Hmm, they seem to have one Swedish band included:

· Kent - “Vinternoll2”

Not one of their big hits, but I guess they deemed it suitable for GH play.

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=haSCq3cOL8c

---

**[Relmstein](http://relmstein.blogspot.com)** writes: I think I like the set list for Rock Band 2 a little bit better then GHWT. There is some crossover though.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List\_of\_songs\_in\_Rock\_Band\_2

I'm just glad that the instruments are forwards compatible and will work with the sequel. I hate this new fascination that consoles seem to have with games that use peripherals. I afraid they're automatically timed to break right before the sequel so you have to drop money on getting new ones.

---

**[Hudson](http://hudshideout.blogspot.com/)** writes: SCORE:

· Tool - “Parabola” — Tool set! My daughter rejoices.
· Tool - “Schism”
· Tool - “Vicarious”

---

