Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [September](./westkarana.md)
# Golemizer -- ruling the world through mad science

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-09-16 13:30:21*

From the press release (at work, so just cut/paste, haven't played yet). Looks from the screenshots like an old Super Nintendo-like RPG. You create golems and other stuff and rule the world. Their web page has the standard Albert Einstein-looking mad scientist. What did Einstein ever do to be demonized as the stereotypical mad scientist? He always looked like a kindly uncle or something. Peter Cushing has a kind of chiseled, mean look that would be easy to draw, and has the advantage of actually playing a mad scientist in movies, and plus he destroyed Alderaan... I dunno. Leave Einstein alone!!!! Anyway.

---

Golemizer is a free 2D steampunk world where players are set in the role of scientists creating monsters and many other devices to obtain glory and fame. Inspired by sandbox environment games, Golemizer includes features aimed to give players more influence over the world:

- Persistent monsters created by players
- Skills system allowing full freedom over character development
- Crafting system allowing players to provide most items of the world
- Player housing
- Player cities
- Player merchants
- 2D avatar based chat between players
- Guild system
- RSS feeds of recent events while players are offline
- Quests and a badge reward system

Free and requiring no download or plug-in, Golemizer offers a different multiplayer experience by taking players away from swords and magic to bring them to a rich crafting world. Golemizer is updated on a regular basis with new content and new systems giving players more power over the environment. For more information or to play the game, please visit <http://www.golemizer.com>.

## Comments!

**Yeebo** writes: Wow, that sounds really neat. That wasn't on my radar at all. Now lets just hope it's better that the golem crafting system in that Mana game (Legend of Mana?) for the PS1 (how in god's name they expected anyone to figure that out I an hardly imagine).

---

