Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [December](./westkarana.md)
# The peasants are begging for Spellborn? Let them kill bunnies!

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-12-12 14:12:27*

Frogster released yesterday a new Spellborn-based web mini-game. It's region free, so anyone in the world can play it... and since our Acclaim beta is a week overdue (raise your hand if you're surprised. What, no hands?), this is about the best we can do to sate the Spellborn craving...

I dunno if this will work on my blog, but it might! You can also play it at its [official home](http://spellborn.frogster-ip.com/hoppy/#) if you like.



## Comments!

**[The Friendly Necromancer](http://thefriendlynecromancer.blogspot.com)** writes: I'm horrible at killing bunnies. I think the best I got was like 350. gah. :-)

---

**Mallika** writes: By the way, Tipa, will you be trying out Runes of Magic? The open beta starts today and I'll be checking it out later on. A few things caught my eye about it -- it has housing; it has dual classes; it allows you to dabble in all the trade skills but you have to pick and choose which ones to get to the next tier in this way (copy-pasted from another site):

*Profession system allow you to learn and handle all the professions at the apprentice level, but there’s a frontier between each level and you’ll have to choose wisely.

 * Apprentice : all professions can be learned at the Apprentice level.
 * Craftsman : only 6 of the professions can be learned at the Craftsman level.
 * Specialist : only 3 of the professions can be learned at the Specialist level.
 * Master : Only one of the professions can be learned at the master level.

So, at the final step, you can be :

 * Master in one profession.
 * Specialist in two professions.
 * Craftsman in three professions.
 * Apprentice in the remaining professions (three or four depending of what’s already in game).

Professions can be split in two categories : collecting and crafting.

* Collecting family

Those activities are the settlement of the profession system. Without grabbing the basic materials you can’t craft anything.

 * mining : all sorts of minerals, useful for armors and more.
 * wood cutting : all sorts of wood, useful for weapons and more.
 * fishing : all sorts of fish, used for advanced recipes.
 * herb grabbing : all sorts of plants, useful for cooking, alchemy and more.
 * …

* Crafting family

 * blacksmith : weapon maker
 * armor : armor maker
 * lumber : equipment maker
 * cooking : special preparations maker
 * alchemy : potions maker
 * tailoring : clothes maker
 * …
*
I've watched a few videos and the housing, classes, etc. look rather interesting. Of course I may hate it within the first five minutes of going in, but it appears to be pretty well-done.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: I like a lot of Runes of Magic from what I've seen of it. Frogster -- the same people publishing Spellborn in Asia and Europe -- has done a fantastic job in bringing this Asian WoW-hybrid to the West. I'd like to try it, but don't know if I'll have the chance. I think Runes was more meant for people with a greater WoW background who's curious about Asian MMOs, but doesn't want to drown themselves in something like Lineage 2 or DOMO, quite yet :) Runes won't have RMT (if I remember right), but will be free to play. Not quite sure how they're going to make money on that. Games where I can't tell how they are making money make me nervous.

---

**Mallika** writes: No, they do have RMT. :) There's an ingame shop, though I haven't seen it because the servers aren't open yet. There's also a link on the website where you can purchase/top up "diamonds" ... which I'm assuming is the RMT currency.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Ah, okay :) Thanks! I guess I remembered it wrong. Always good to know how they are planning on paying for it.

---

