Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [June](./westkarana.md)
# Slave to marketing.

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-06-30 09:45:49*

I almost -- ALMOST -- bought Guitar Hero: Aerosmith this weekend, for the PS3. And I probably would have, if I'd gone there Sunday instead of Saturday. Games for the PS3 are $60, the new price point, and I'd have had to buy a guitar controller for the PS3 as well.

I have two guitar controllers for the Xbox 360 and two more for the PS2. My desire to invest in more guitar controllers is precisely zero.

And yet, I wanted to find a game to play for my PS3. It's great for watching Doctor Who on the big screen ("The Stolen Earth" -- AMAZING.) but I feel really frustrated that I haven't been able to find even one game for the PS3 worth the $60.

I thought Guitar Hero: Aerosmith would be the one. But it wasn't for sale when I went. I played the Guitar Hero demo system they had set up near the Aerosmith display, thinking it was a preview for the new game. I realized, though, as I worked through the set list, that this was Guitar Hero III, a game I'd played through once on the PS2, but was so turned off by the awful boss battles that I never played it again.

I went home, plugged the PS*2* in, and played Guitar Hero III again. I was AWFUL. Absolutely HORRID.

What followed was at least an hour or two of calibrating the game for the new widescreen TV. Ahhhhh.... I could play again.

I mean, when you can't even hit the notes at the very slowest speed in practice mode -- it's not you.

Anyway, I wanted the game for the PS3, but it's the exact same game as for the PS2, and I already have the controllers for the PS2 (and they remain my favorite of all the controllers). The picture was a little fuzzy but the music was just as loud.

I WANT to believe. I WANT to believe that the $400 lump of metal and plastic beneath my TV is worth more than just a REALLY GOOD media controller to someone who isn't into shooters and war games. (PS3 fans go WTF? What other kinds of games ARE there?).

My search for a game that I can show people that will justify the PS3 continues.

## Comments!

**[Relmstein](http://relmstein.blogspot.com)** writes: So far I haven't bought any actual PS3 games except for Rockband. I do like Tactical RPGs though and I hear Disgaea 3 is coming out this summer. I'm hoping the game is just as fun as previous entries in the series and I can finally justify the money I dropped on the expensive 60GB version.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Oh, I haven't played the other Disgaea games but heard good things about it. I loved Final Fantasy Tactics, and if they came out with FFT3 (was that DS version 2?), that would be reason enough to me to buy a PS3. Absolutely.

---

**[Kanthalos](http://mmoreinsight.com)** writes: Not too sure about any other games, but Little Big Planet looks like it's going to be incredibly fun. If you haven't checked it out, you definitely should. The problem is that it's not coming out until October, so there's still a bit of a wait on it. I hope you guys find something to enjoy your PS3's with. I'm pretty happy with my XBox 360 for now with some exciting titles on the horizon.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Well, the only game I wanted for the Xbox 360 was Rock Band, and that's out for the PS3, too. What 360 games are you looking forward to?

Maybe I just am not part of the info stream for the Xbox 360 and the PS3? I did sign into PSN and look into some of the demos. Most of them were just war/killing/murder games. There was one Escher-esque game for download which looked cool, the demo was neat. Reason to buy a PS3? No, of course not, and it's for the PSP as well.

LittleBig Planet -- you run around using the environment to solve puzzles, and you can share what you build with others? I'll likely play it, but it's taking forever to come out. It sounds to me like the same *sort* of massively single player game as Spore, which I will certainly be buying. On the PC.

Well. When the PS3 was still unreleased, I was excited about games like Heavenly Sword and Lair, both of which were disappointments when released. I tried Heavenly Sword in Gamestop, and it was "okay". The action time stuff reminded me of Space Ace.

We did pick up another launch title, Untold Legends. My son and I played it in co-op mode for a bit, which was kind of fun, but I found the overall gameplay monotonous. I was hoping it would have some EverQuest tie-in, but nope. No EQ. An action RPG set in EQ's world would be a must-buy for me.

---

**[Snafzg](http://thegreenskin.com)** writes: I always kind of wondered why unique controller-based games like GH or RB didn't run on some common format like USB for the various consoles. The current landscape is brutal for the customer and not really beneficial for MS, Sony, or Nintendo. What benefit is there for proprietary control ports for these kinds of games?

Maybe the reason is that these games came out after the current-gen consoles, but I really hope the next-gen consoles include something like USB for games like this.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Both the Xbox 360 and the PS3 use standard USB connections. The special buttons on the controllers differ, but the main difference is not the connector type -- it's the wireless connections. Those are entirely different. In fact, Microsoft charges so much to license their wireless technology that Rock Band was forced to use wired connections. 

You can plug Xbox 360 and PS3 controllers (the wired ones, anyway) into any standard PC. But the protocol of the information passed through those connections -- that's the problem, and I agree, it would be nice if they could standardize those.

I'd like to use my PS2 guitar controllers all the time, but -- they do use a nonstandard connector.

---

**[Snafzg](http://thegreenskin.com)** writes: Hah, goes to show I've barely touched any of the new consoles! :P

Thanks for the information!

---

**TheRemedy** writes: There are quite a few good cheap games you can get off the psn that you may enjoy. Pixeljunk monsters, pain, super stardust hd, flow, echocrome. You also mentioned Rachet and Clank Future, which I thoroughly enjoyed. It plays the same as the others but it's pretty and shiny!

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Echochrome -- that's that game demo I downloaded! It's pretty surreal. I'll look up some of those others. Ratchet an Clank is the one I keep forgetting about. Great suggestions -- thanks!

---

**[rmckee78](http://www.otherlivesthanthisone.blogspot.com)** writes: I would like to say that I use my PS3 for hot new blockbuster games...but I don't. I use it for the following.

Castlevania SotN
Pixeljunk Racers
Echochrome
Calling All Cars (most fun multiplayer game since Ice Hockey and Super Mario Kart (SNES))

None of the big next gen games are drawing me in for any system right now.

---

