Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [June](./westkarana.md)
# How to throw snowballs in Project Powder

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-06-30 15:18:22*

I haven't really looked at the stats for this blog since I started working at [Massively](http://massively.com). I took a peek and hey, there are still four to five hundred people coming by daily at almost ten thousand visitors in the month of June! Love you all!!!

It's always fun to check out what people are searching for that brings them to this site. And buried in there was about half a dozen requests from people who want to know how to throw a snowball in Project Powder.

I had to ask, too! After being pelted by a hail of snowballs when I didn't click "Ready" fast enough!

To throw a snowball in Project Powder:

Gather snow by left clicking on the snow near your feet and holding the mouse button down for awhile.

When you get enough snow piled up, lift the mouse button and you will form it into a ball and stand up.

Left click on another player to throw the snowball at them.

If someone hits you with a snowball while you are gathering snow or are looking around for a good target for your own snowball, you drop your snowball. If you MOVE, you drop your snowball.

Best thing to do: Make your snowball, find the person who bumped you off the last curve and won the race by 0.05 seconds, and land one in their face!

## Comments!

**Noffin** writes: Yeah you get enough people in the room and there is a lot of snowballs flying around.

---

**[Ardwulf](http://ardwulfslair.wordpress.com)** writes: I lust after your hit count. :)

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Considering I don't blog about WAR, AoC or WoW... I dunno! I'm just really happy people come by! Though I suspect a quarter of the traffic is blog scrapers, and another quarter is spammers.

---

**PekkaR** writes: MMO-blogwise the first requirement to having me visit regularly is to be included in Abalieno's public feed reader... It just ended up that way. I'm cutting that dependency any day now that I've decided I like Google Reader.

Having passed that hurdle, I don't follow at least 30% of the links there. Tipa posts are generally worth clicking through to, though. ;)

I don't have (much) EQ history, but I can read the best bits aloud for my SO who does. It's good to hear about developments in SOE's old games. (I even think of EQ2 as old, while WoW is still "current"...) Anything about Mythos I'll devour happily. Everybody who follows upcoming online games should keep tabs on it IMO. And it's great to learn about new stuff like Project Powder.

I think West Karana almost monopolizes EQ(2) and Mythos topics among good MMO blogs. Your current not-even-all-that-small niche. :p

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: *blush* THANKS!!!! :))

I'm a big fan of Abalieno, too. I find out about so many books through his blog...

---

