Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [October](./westkarana.md)
# EQ2: Cloth vests mean more fashion choices for casters

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-10-08 14:00:59*

In either this latest game update, GU49, or the previous one, SOE added new recipes for tailors so that cloth-wearing classes, the ones whose clothing choices have previously been limited pretty much to all-covering burkas, can have a little more flexibility with their look.

Last night I stood in front of a loom and looked at some of these new options.

Some of the new outfits are ungodly ugly, at least on halflings. But a couple really stuck out. I must point out, though, that the claim in the GU48 patch notes that all outfits would be complete doesn't seem to be the case. If you could previously only make four pieces of a particular suit, you should now be able to make all of them. This wasn't the case with the tier 1 Tranquil sets, below. Both were missing boots and bracers, and neither the hat nor the shoulder pieces had a graphic.



|  |  |
| --- | --- |
| 
Pristine Tranquil Sackcloth armor |
 
Pristine Tranquil Threadbare armor |



Both are fairly unique looks. The Sackcloth reminds me of the tier 7 cloth armor out of Castle Mistmoore, while the Threadbare looks *almost* like a gi.

A note about the screenshots. They were both taken at max quality in Gorowyn, with the multicore fix working. I was getting about 15 fps at max settings -- in Gorowyn, long second only to Neriak as a difficult place for my computer. Unfortunately, running at max settings for very long crases EQ2 for me after it runs out of memory. But it's a huge improvement over what I had before, and for me, is the best improvement that came with the latest patch.

## Comments!

**[Crookshankz](http://thegaminggoob.wordpress.com)** writes: Were all the changes cloth only or did they manage to sneak any plate/chain in with the update?

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Not being an armorer, I don't know for sure, but I think this was mostly a tailoring update.

---

**[Openedge1](http://simple-n-complex.blogspot.com)** writes: 15FPS eh? On a laptop huh? And my system gear I think is a little more ...uh...Ubah? 

I wonder how it will perform for me?

Well, the wife returns this weekend to AoC, and I will be putting that game on "solo" hold for now (i.e: Duo only)..so, I am still debating coming back...it is looking better...that's for sure!

Thanks for these updates.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: I plan on getting an 'ubah' system sometime next year, too. I look at the screenshots Stargrace shows and am amazed.

EQ2 is what it is. A place I come to relax and have fun with no pressure or need to do anything but whatever I want to do. Last night was decorating the guild hall. Tonight might be doing some crafting or maybe logging Ettie in and healing for another DFC run.

There's currently no other game like it, and that's why *I* like it. It just is what it is :)

---

