Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [October](./westkarana.md)
# LittleBigPlanet closes the closed beta.

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-10-13 11:53:02*

I played LittleBigPlanet right up until they shut down the servers. I even dragged out my other controller and played two sack people at once for some of the co-op stuff. Turns out I was right about why I couldn't fully complete certain levels -- there are trigger stickers, like the star, that you only get several games n to "The British King's" levels.

All were fun. Some were deviously inventive. Exploration is rewarded, and everything you find can go toward making your own things.

LBP looks like Muppets caught in a world gone mad. The sense of realism is amazing. Tilting the controller, using the left D-pad and the shoulder buttons, your characters become incredibly expressive -- if that's what you'd like to do with them. Watching your sackperson struggle and strain to move something large into place, or desperately run after and jump onto a cart that got a little out of control -- is amazing. The game is easily as fun to watch as it is to play.

Due to real life, I didn't get to play LBP as much as I'd have liked to, but my opinion hasn't changed. This is the sort of genre-smashing game that Sony should have had out at launch.


## Comments!

**[Shuttler](http://www.yellowspadex.com)** writes: I loved playing this and even sat down with my non-gaming wife and played it. That's the first time in 12 years we have enjoyed a game together!

I think that says a lot about it as a game, what also speaks volumes is the fact I miss the beta now it's gone. I haven't had that desire after a beta in a long time.

---

**[almagill](http://almagill.livejournal.com)** writes: Have been watching little snippets of LBP video on YouTube etc and, it's just lovely looking...

Hope it does really well. (And they eventually port it to PC, lol)

---

