Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [October](./westkarana.md)
# EQ2 and WoW, 2GETHA 4EVA

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-10-20 11:48:00*

I went off to Amazon.com to pre-order The Shadow Odyssey so I could get that cool dire bear pet/mount (which will be claimed by Ettie, my 46 defiler), and halfway down the page, Amazon told me that people who pre-ordered the EQ2 expansion frequently pre-ordered Wrath of the Lich King at the same time.

I wonder how many people play both games?

I should be getting a free digital download of the expansion on my main account, since I went to Fan Faire and have gotten the Fan Faire cloak, so I'm in the system even though I attended on a press pass. I wasn't sure about that.

Going to be a VERY busy Fall, with EQ2:TSO and Spellborn all out the same month. And I bet KingsIsle releases the fifth Wizard 101 world, Dragonspyre, by then, too... just to make sure I have no free time, EVER!



## Comments!

**[Stargrace](http://www.mmoquests.com)** writes: Just as a heads up in case you want to double check - all accounts were granted the fan faire cloak for some reason. At first it was only those accounts flagged for beta (as I found it on my account) and then a week later it was flagged on all accounts even those not in the beta and who had not attended fan faire. If we're talking about the 2008 cloak that you can click and change into the wall mounting that is, white with a green strip across it? Mug on it?

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Yeah that's the one. Well, even if I don't get it for free, I'll probably just get the digital download. The Amazon pre-order won't be arriving until days later.

However, since everyone has gotten the cloak, I'll stop wearing mine and go back to our guild cloak. If it's not special, it's pointless.

---

**[JoBildo](http://bildos.blogspot.com)** writes: Fable 2 this evening, and Fallout 3 next week... MMOGs going on the side for a bit with these two for me. :)

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: WTB Fable 2 for the PS3 or PC :P I'd definitely be playing if I had a system that could run it.

---

**[JoBildo](http://bildos.blogspot.com)** writes: If it's like the first one, it'll be out in a few months for the PC with DX10 support. Early reviews are raving, so here's hoping. :)

Before I collapse into bed late tonight (or early tomorrow morning), I hope to get a brief impressions up on it.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: I'll be watching for it :)

---

**[ogrebears](http://www.ogrebear.com)** writes: What weird is i didn't go to fan faire, but i got the fan faire cloak. I didn't get beta access though, so i think SoE was just being nice to me.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: I'm sure SOE felt that if it got their favorite ogrebear back from Warhammer, it was worth the price :)

---

**Anakh** writes: Hey Tipa, just so you know, the devs have confirmed that the box-promo bear will be one-per-character, so no need to restrict it to just one character! 


Also the bear details, per the same dev.


Posted by Ilucide:

I can totally answer some of these questions! As you level, your bear grows with you.


From 1 to 19, he's a little bearcub that follows you around.
From 20 to 39, he grows up and you can ride him around (a 20% speed mount).
From 40 to 59, he gets a saddle, and some more speed (30%).
From 60 to 79, he gains armor, and more speed (40%).
At 80, he's fully grown. He has a full set of armor & saddle and is as fast as he'll ever get (52%).

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: That bear is cool :) But they're giving it to all characters on an account?

That's... incredibly generous of them. That makes the digital download an even WORSE deal. I guess they're trying to boost box sales or something?

---

**[tenfoldhate](http://tenfoldhate.com)** writes: That bear sounds so cool. I love that it starts off as a vanity pet that "grows" with your character into a mount. Very original idea--and such a change from the typical lackluster "bonus" items that are either useless from the get-go or you outgrow after several weeks of play.

I read on station.com that the digital downloads include its own bonus item--a demon in a cage that you can keep in your house that gives you some sort of discount on your housing fees? Did anyone else read this?

---

**Milia** writes: It is my understanding you can only get the bear or the house pet - which is totally rotten, IMO. Which do you want me to do? Buy the download or buy the box? I am your little slave and will put my money wherever you tell me to (except for LoN) but for pete's sake, make it clear. I want all the goodies and I'm willing to pay a wee bit more to get both. Which one is better? The brunai (I can't spell that) pet with RoK was GREAT and a great idea. But you only got it with the box - which, btw, the big box stores wouldn't sell until a day after download release the last expansion, even though it was IN the store. I always have to run around to find the Gamestop that will sell me the box "a day early" if they even realize they have it. 

And a pet that maxes out at 52% runspeed? I can get 55% with the crafter epic earring buff and my j-boots. Please, 52% is nothing to get excited about. The growing up idea is neat but feh, not worth it. Now, if he randomly gave you shinies after each kill... 

Sounds like it will be the download for me this year.

---

