Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2006](/posts/2006/westkarana.md) > [June](./westkarana.md)
# Blue Oyster Cult and EQ2

*Posted by Tipa on 2006-06-23 00:00:00*

Anyone who knows me knows my favorite rock band... Blue Oyster Cult. My kids love them, too, because growing up, what choice did they have? My daughter claimed "Hot Rails to Hell" was her favorite song when she was little; my son still sings along to "Godzilla" (and guess what song ALWAYS has to appear on my Guitar Hero set list?)

Via [EQ2 Daily](http://www.eq2-daily.com/), [this interview](http://www.duluthsuperior.com/mld/duluthsuperior/entertainment/14870981.htm) with lead singer Eric Bloom about Saturday Night Live, more cowbell, and EverQuest 2.

From the interview:

> Q:*It's funny how much of a shelf-life "more cowbell" has. I was at an alternative-rock concert a couple of weeks back and saw someone with a "more cowbell" shirt.*

A:It's become part of the English language. It's really weird. I'm a big car nut, so I get AutoWeek magazine and I'm reading an article about some car, and they said, "This car needs more cowbell."

I'm a big online gamer -- this was a couple years ago, when I was playing "EverQuest 2" -- and some guy had a macro made where you could just hit one tab on your computer and it says a phrase. His said, "Charge, we're going to give them more cowbell than they can take!" He didn't even know that I was in the band, and I'm playing him. It was really funny.


## Comments!

**Tipa** writes: I'm a MMO gal, my reflexes aren't fast enough for FPS... but if there's a BOC ref in the demo, I'll have to look it up :) Thanks! I've been thinking of doing a machinema to BOC's "When The Old Gods Return"... if I could figure out how to model good monsters...

---

**Andrew** writes: Wow, I'm surprised. I could have cared less when I learned that Curt Shilling played EQ, but Eric Bloom? Now that's a different story. Speaking of BOC, I don't know if you're much of a FPS person, but there's a great scene at the beginning of the new Prey demo that uses BOC to great effect.

---

