Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2007](/posts/2007/westkarana.md) > [November](./westkarana.md)
# Darkfall

*Posted by Tipa on 2007-11-16 14:41:38*

The comments about the EvE-ification of a fantasy world have, I think, shown that there's a lot of interest in that sort of gameplay moved from interstellar space to interfluvial forests.

Ammon777 [brought me to task](../../../index.php/2007/11/14/what-if-eve-online-were-a-fantasy-mmorpg/#comment-3933) for not knowing about [Darkfall](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Darkfall), which sounds a lot like I was imagining, except you're still directly playing your avatar (from a first or third person view) rather than seeing it and your forces from a distant perspective, as in EvE. Also, it doesn't look like you get to attract an entourage based on your skill development, as you do in EvE (replace 'entourage' with 'guns and shields and drones and stuff' -- they're conceptually similar).

That was the really cool part about the whole thing.

The [Wikipedia article](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Darkfall) makes the history of the game development seem as exciting as the game. Moving from Norway to Greece, a six+ year development time, the game itself shrouded in secrecy... There's a story about Darkfall Online that begs to be written, and maybe exists on its web site, but I can't read it here at work.

An RTS/Full PvP/MMORPG? I'd love to try it!
 
## Comments!

**[wilhelm2451](http://tagn.wordpress.com/)** writes: It would have been more interesting if Ammon777 had pointed out a game that appeared to have some substantive reality to it. That was throwing so much marketing fluff in your face as far as I can tell. All sorts of promises and nothing to back it up. We've been fed that before time and time again. 

And at the rate they are putting out news updates, they hardly seem to be building to a release any time in the foreseeable future. (Or they seriously have no idea how to do this sort of thing. Or both!)

Color me unimpressed until it sees the light of day.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: You're thinking Horizons and Dawn, I betcha :)

---

**[wilhelm2451](http://tagn.wordpress.com/)** writes: Horizons, Dawn, Dark & Light, Darkfall... I see a naming pattern developing here.

But looking at the WarCry Darkfall site, where they mention all sort of things promised for the game, including naval combat, I have to admit that the name "McQuaid" came to mind. Or maybe it was just the repeated use of the word "hardcore."

---

**michael, StE** writes: On the subject of MMORTS, it's still vapourware, but THQ has announced that they will be making a Company of Heroes RTS MMO, with a release of next year.

Remains to be seen whether it'll turn out remotely interesting, but this is a company with a keen grasp on two strong RTS properties - 40K Dawn of War, and Company of Heroes (CoH being something akin to the 2nd gen DoW engine). THQ also have the license for the Warhammer 40K Online. Coincidence? I think not...

Tinfoil hattery aside, it will be very interesting to see what THQ come up with over the next year or two for CoH/W40K. Will it just be an iteration of the CoH compaign map (unimaginative, but effective) or something more interesting and immersive.

---

