Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2007](/posts/2007/westkarana.md) > [November](./westkarana.md)
# EvE Online under Linux/Mac

*Posted by Tipa on 2007-11-04 05:29:22*

CCP, makers of EvE Online, [announced yesterday](http://myeve.eve-online.com/ingameboard.asp?a=topic&threadID=628520&) that they will soon have official support for their game on the Macintosh and Linux.

It's little things like this that chip away at Windows' dominance in PC gaming. The kind of thing that would make me want to resubscribe -- I'm writing this on Linux, I do nearly everything on Linux, except for the times I reboot to Windows to play a game.

EvE Online has worked to some extent for awhile with Wine and Cedega, open source and commercial versions of a library that provides Windows compatible libraries with which to run Windows games and applications under Linux. Since all this does just use Cedega (or Cider for the Mac) and isn't a truly native client, this doesn't really add anything players didn't already have in some fashion, but it's nice to see more games companies offering *official* support.

Unfortunately, the Linux client doesn't ATI cards. The card I use on my Linux box, an nVidia 6600 (which handles EQ2, Portal and Dungeon Runners fabulously), is the *minimum* card listed; they recommend at least an nVidia 7600.

The Mac client is recommended for cards better than the ATI X1600 or the nVidia 7300. (Yay, Mac supports ATI...)

This is the kind of thing CCP does that is going to get me to resubscribe. Not have to boot out of Linux to play a game? Nice...

On the other hand, Cedega runs like crap on my machine, so I don't know if EvE would run any better...

