Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [March](./westkarana.md)
# Meme of the Week: What D&D Character am I?

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-03-10 16:39:34*

**I Am A:** True Neutral Human Wizard (6th Level)
  
  
Ability Scores:  

**Strength-**10  

**Dexterity-**10  

**Constitution-**10  

**Intelligence-**15  

**Wisdom-**13  

**Charisma-**10
  
  
Alignment:  
**True Neutral** A true neutral character does what seems to be a good idea. He doesn't feel strongly one way or the other when it comes to good vs. evil or law vs. chaos. Most true neutral characters exhibit a lack of conviction or bias rather than a commitment to neutrality. Such a character thinks of good as better than evil after all, he would rather have good neighbors and rulers than evil ones. Still, he's not personally committed to upholding good in any abstract or universal way. Some true neutral characters, on the other hand, commit themselves philosophically to neutrality. They see good, evil, law, and chaos as prejudices and dangerous extremes. They advocate the middle way of neutrality as the best, most balanced road in the long run. True neutral is the best alignment you can be because it means you act naturally, without prejudice or compulsion. However, true neutral can be a dangerous alignment because it represents apathy, indifference, and a lack of conviction.  

  
Race:  
**Humans** are the most adaptable of the common races. Short generations and a penchant for migration and conquest have made them physically diverse as well. Humans are often unorthodox in their dress, sporting unusual hairstyles, fanciful clothes, tattoos, and the like.
  
  
Class:  
**Wizards** are arcane spellcasters who depend on intensive study to create their magic. To wizards, magic is not a talent but a difficult, rewarding art. When they are prepared for battle, wizards can use their spells to devastating effect. When caught by surprise, they are vulnerable. The wizard's strength is her spells, everything else is secondary. She learns new spells as she experiments and grows in experience, and she can also learn them from other wizards. In addition, over time a wizard learns to manipulate her spells so they go farther, work better, or are improved in some other way. A wizard can call a familiar- a small, magical, animal companion that serves her. With a high Intelligence, wizards are capable of casting very high levels of spells.
  
  
Find out [What Kind of Dungeons and Dragons Character Would You Be?](http://www.easydamus.com/character.html), courtesy of Easydamus [(e-mail)](mailto:zybstrski@excite.com)  
  


---

I was hoping for Bard.

## Comments!

**[Captain Angry](http://www.captain-angry.com)** writes: I got to question 20 when I realized there are like 125 questions. TLDR

This time would be better spent fine tuning my zombie plague procedural programing demo

---

**[mbp](http://www.mindbendingpuzzles.blogspot.com)** writes: Lawful Neutral Human Wizard (5th level).

Not sure I like the lawful Neutral bit because apparently "I seek to seeks to eliminate all freedom, choice, and diversity in society."

---

**[Hexx](http://hexx-scribblings.blogspot.com/)** writes: Wow that was long.

I am a True Neutral Human Fighter/Sorcerer (3rd/3rd Level)

---

**[Mythokia](http://blog.thermonuclearexchange.com)** writes: True Neutral Human Ranger/Sorcerer (1st/1st Level) for me.

---

**[Thermonuclear Exchange - The D&#38;D Character that I am](http://blog.thermonuclearexchange.com/2008/03/11/the-dd-character-that-i-am/)** writes: [...] learnt of this rather lengthy test from a recent entry in Tipa’s blog. And here goes my [...]

---

**[Pumping Irony » I&#8217;m a&#8230; What?](http://pumpingirony.net/2008/03/10/im-a-what/)** writes: [...] don’t usually take these online quizzes but I enjoyed reading the results of this one from Tipa, Damion, and the indomitable Michael Zenke, I figured why not? Given the unfortunate passing of RPG [...]

---

**Aktad** writes: Lawful Good Human Ranger - 6th level....

Hmmm... not so sure I really like the "Lawful Good" designation, smacks too much of the Paladin for me - and those guys always seem so rigid about life....

Might have to re-take the test and see what I get the second time around... of course - I did have a lvl 65 Ranger in EQ1 and a lvl 70 Ranger in EQ2.... hmmmmm

---

**[Relmstein](http://relmstein.blogspot.com)** writes: Bah got the same thing you got but a lower level. My stats are better, though apparently you can beat me in a game of arm wrestling.

True Neutral Human Wizard (2nd Level)

Ability Scores:
**Strength-**9
**Dexterity-**11
**Constitution-**11
**Intelligence-**16
**Wisdom-**17
**Charisma-**12

---

**[Lishian](http://lishian.wordpress.com)** writes: Lawful Good Gnome Monk/Wizard 3/3

I was hoping for Chatic Evil 100th level Master Of All Beelzebub

---

**[MmoQuests.com Â» What D&#38;D Character Am I?](http://mmoquests.com/2008/03/11/what-dd-character-am-i/)** writes: [...] this meme from Tipa, over at West Karana.. results don’t surprise me too much, except I’m a lower level [...]

---

**Zygwen** writes: Lawful Neutral Human (5th Level)
Ability Scores:
**Strength-**12
**Dexterity-**12
**Constitution-**12
**Intelligence-**13
**Wisdom-**12
**Charisma-**12

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Zygwen has no class! Now everybody knows...

---

**[Lucifrank](http://tenfoldhate.com)** writes: I'm a sucker for these quizzes. Turns out I'm a 3rd level Chaotic Good Human Bard/Rogue.

Strength- 14
Dexterity- 10
Constitution- 16
Intelligence- 12
Wisdom- 14
Charisma- 14

Happy with the class, but I demand a reroll on the stats. Heh heh.

---

**[rmckee78](http://otherlivesthanthisone.blogspot.com/)** writes: **I Am A:** Lawful Good Human /Sorcerer (3rd/2nd Level)
Ability Scores:
**Strength-**15
**Dexterity-**14
**Constitution-**12
**Intelligence-**16
**Wisdom-**13
**Charisma-**14
Alignment:**Lawful Good** A lawful good character acts as a good person is expected or required to act. He combines a commitment to oppose evil with the discipline to fight relentlessly. He tells the truth, keeps his word, helps those in need, and speaks out against injustice. A lawful good character hates to see the guilty go unpunished. Lawful good is the best alignment you can be because it combines honor and compassion. However, lawful good can be a dangerous alignment because it restricts freedom and criminalizes self-interest.
Race:**Humans** are the most adaptable of the common races. Short generations and a penchant for migration and conquest have made them physically diverse as well. Humans are often unorthodox in their dress, sporting unusual hairstyles, fanciful clothes, tattoos, and the like.
Primary Class:**Monks** are versatile warriors skilled at fighting without weapons or armor. Good-aligned monks serve as protectors of the people, while evil monks make ideal spies and assassins. Though they don't cast spells, monks channel a subtle energy, called ki. This energy allows them to perform amazing feats, such as healing themselves, catching arrows in flight, and dodging blows with lightning speed. Their mundane and ki-based abilities grow with experience, granting them more power over themselves and their environment. Monks suffer unique penalties to their abilities if they wear armor, as doing so violates their rigid oath. A monk wearing armor loses their Wisdom and level based armor class bonuses, their movement speed, and their additional unarmed attacks per round.
Secondary Class:**Sorcerers** are arcane spellcasters who manipulate magic energy with imagination and talent rather than studious discipline. They have no books, no mentors, no theories just raw power that they direct at will. Sorcerers know fewer spells than wizards do and acquire them more slowly, but they can cast individual spells more often and have no need to prepare their incantations ahead of time. Also unlike wizards, sorcerers cannot specialize in a school of magic. Since sorcerers gain their powers without undergoing the years of rigorous study that wizards go through, they have more time to learn fighting skills and are proficient with simple weapons. Charisma is very important for sorcerers; the higher their value in this ability, the higher the spell level they can cast.
Find out [What Kind of Dungeons and Dragons Character Would You Be?](http://www.easydamus.com/character.html), courtesy of Easydamus [(e-mail)](mailto:zybstrski@excite.com)

---

**Zygwen** writes: It's the new NPC class called Undefined.

Should have been Monk, not sure why the copy paste didn't include it. Seems like a bug in their script though.

---

**Neuralparadox** writes: I Am A: Chaotic Neutral Human Barbarian (3rd Level)


Ability Scores:
Strength-15
Dexterity-14
Constitution-13
Intelligence-14
Wisdom-14
Charisma-15

---

