Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [March](./westkarana.md)
# Could the next EQ2 expansion be... Guk?

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-03-14 10:11:03*

Massively [has been running a feature](http://www.massively.com/2008/03/14/part-two-of-eqii-lore-feature-escape-from-guk/) on newly-discovered EQ2 lore dealing with that famous EQ1 dungeon, Guk, the ancient home of the Frogloks.

Guk was just off the troll newbie grounds in EQ1, and was one of the two high level dungeons in the original EverQuest, the other being Nagafen's Lair, AKA Sol B. EQ2 lore tells us that the frogloks, ogres and trolls were driven from South Antonica during the Age of Turmoil and bombarded during the Shattering, leaving only The Feerrott behind. Guk, Innothule Swamp, Lake Rathetear, and the Rathe Mountains were erased. What remains of the Plains of Karana now are part of the Thundering Steppes.

It's clear Guk *could* still be out there, but the Feerrott separated Innothule Swamp from the Rathe Mountains, and *it's* still there. It's hard to see how, geographically, Guk and its swamp would be enough content on its own for an expansion, and you'd think someone would have discovered it prior to now if it had still been around.

The city of Guk was a vast, vast dungeon in two zones that could take players from their 30s to their 50s. It would be great to see it again in EQ2 in some form -- for the same level range. More midlevel content is a GOOD thing. The last was the revamping of Deathfist Citadel, and that went extremely well, very popular.


## Comments!

**[Cyanbane](http://www.cyanbane.com)** writes: Its official canon lore from eq2players website. Massively is just re-reporting it with a rehash summary of their own (like they do most stuff).

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Ah. For some reason I thought I had read it was newly discovered in VP. Well, still something to think about.

---

**Einhorn** writes: I miss the "slorshy-glorp slorshy-glorp slorshy-glorp" noise it made when frogs walked around. I loved getting lost in Guk, even though most people claim it was the most horrible place ever. I never actually got to raid Guk very much. By the time I was the appropriate level people were doing other things. Not having a raiding guild didn't exactly help either. 

It never stopped me from wandering around down there. I truly got my fair share of Guk when a special event came out. The Fabled Week! I spent a lot of time in Guk getting every fabled item. People had enormous camps set up with lines and numbers assigned to people in order for everyone to get what they needed. They all told stories and jokes (and cybered) to keep each other awake. It was like a huge camping trip (get it?).

That was so much fun - I really enjoy the HQs in EQ2 because it gives you that nostalgic feel. I'm very happy they implemented such a thing.

I would be happy with anything that comes out as the next expansion, new or nostalgia, as long as it's well done and has a "blown away" factor. I hope it blows Tipa away too, because then she'll produce more articles - but I really hope there's something good to complain about too, because then Tipa will make another witty flame that makes everyone stare at me as I read this from work while I laugh my head off. I know she'll provide screenshots, sarcasm and find some way to blame this on Mr. Burrows.

You know it's his fault.

---

**[rmckee78](http://otherlivesthanthisone.blogspot.com/)** writes: I just hope it is good enough that we get to have another round of guessing games on what the expansion after it will be. This is far more fun that actually playing the game in a lot of ways. Also I want some form of player generated content. I would like it to take the form of a Neverwinter Nights type thing but will be happy with the ability to write quests for other players and award them with gold and XP (perhaps my XP?). I would also be satisfied if it took the form of player conquerable castles and trade routes that were actually fun to play around with. Pretty much this is the only kind of stuff that will bring me back to MMOs full time. I think EQ2 is the perfect MMO for it.

---

**Einhorn** writes: I wouldn't want to do ANY player-made quest because I know the kind of quest I'd make. It would go something like this:

'hail, Einhorn'

'Hey there legs, you're lookin' mighty fine! What time should I pick you up? Would you care to help me with a little problem involving [get me some food]?

'what get me some food?'

'[Get me some food]'

'I will get you some food'

'Excellent because I'm really hungry! And I mean REALLY hungry - I hope you have all 20 slot bags because I want you to dump out them satchels, refill your inventory with nothing but Frog Legs and bring them all back to me. I only want fresh, so don't even be trying the broker. Your pants better be soaked when you come back, and not URINE soaked either! I'm going to check! Also, I'm cold and feeling insecure in my masculinity. Give me your Deity Cloak, and then pick out your favorite LORE NO-TRADE item and bring me 50 of them. Did I mention I also need 100 Xegonite and 25 Badges of the Emperor's Guard? I do.'

***6 years later at the turn in***

'Thanks, this looks sub-standard! Good work! Here's something for your trouble'

You earn 12 experience points!
You have received 18 silver.
You have received [An Old Gourd].
You have received [Bucket of Filth].

Target is not an Enemy!
Target is not an Enemy!
Target is not an Enemy!
Target is not an Enemy!

You shout, 'YES IT IS!'

Target is not an Enemy!

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: lol... that's hilarious. and so true.

---

**Zygwen** writes: Maybe Guk will be the next free content update just like the upcomming shard of Hate.

---

**Zygwen** writes: The next LoN loot tournament is featuring King Tormax and the current LoN expansion is set in Kunark. Could be completely unrelated, or not.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: I really, really hope they aren't doing Velious, just for the total lack of originality that would imply. EQ2 should move in newer directions than blindly following EQ1. Velious rocked, from the Tower of Frozen Shadow straight through to the Temple of Veeshan. After seeing how disappointing Kunark was, I shudder at what they would do to Velious.

I am just remembering that LoN is both for EQ1 and EQ2, so it's acceptable (to me) for LoN to track EQ1. As long as EQ2 does not.

---

**Einhorn** writes: I agree with you yet again - Velious needs to be saved for when they are absolutely sure they can do it right.

I've cried my tears for what they did to Butcherblock Mountains and my precious Kaladim - but I'll not have it in me stout heart to shed a tear for Thurgadin too! Thurgadin must remain safe and prosperous! I defended that place from an all-out war against Giants and, damn it, it had better be still standing AND SAFE!

---

