Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [March](./westkarana.md)
# Rock Band: Finally, an album to download.

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-03-25 21:55:40*

Rock Band's first complete album download is not... Nevermind or Who's Next, as we'd been told. It's Boston's first album, Boston, which has pretty damn near all the best songs they ever did (I like "Cool the Engines" and "Amanda" off their third...)

Did I buy it? Um yeah kinda immediately. Back in high school, I loved Boston with a passion matched only by my severe, unrequited longing for Mike Oldfield. But unlike Mike, I never got to see Boston live.

We were just another band out of Boston...

## Comments!

**[Openedge1](http://simple-n-complex.blogspot.com)** writes: Wait
 Did you also croon along to all the "Journey" songs as well?
ARGH!!!!

Anyways...Boston was good for one album...their first...but, if you listen to the second and third very carefully you can hear almost the same exact riffs, drum hits, etc...
(Yes, I am a musician, and Boston is on my "Hurts me to hear it" list)

Ah well...I do have fond memories of being drunk at their concert though, and the drummer accidentally hit the mic above him during a drum solo, and the nauseating pain, and throwing up from my eardrums being shattered (ok...not that bad...but, I did throw up, then threw up at the Nazareth concert the following month...and Judas Priest and Iron Maiden in following years...good thing I quit drinking)

---

**Einhorn** writes: How..uh....depressing.....

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Okay, first of all, Boston and Journey are NOTHING alike. Sheesh. I was having this EXACT SAME conversation with another Massively writer last night. NOBODY understands my love for 70s rock. Plus I am *ALSO* a musician. The fact that my instrument just happens to be the FLUTE (flutes are made from heavy metal; mine is made of silver) shouldn't matter. For one of my flute recitals, I painfully transcribed Jethro Tull's re-imagining of Bach's "Bouree" (from his French Suite) for two flutes and piano. My flute partner went /afk and /quit, while the pianist balked at playing the bass solo. The bass solo MADE that piece.

So yeah, I have teh rock creds, and I say, Boston is aight.

I'll say to you what I said to Chris -- listen to early Journey, like "Nickel and Dime", which you can find on Youtube. And besides, I love the Steve Perry stuff too, so bite me :P

I had FUN rocking out to "Boston" last night, even though the drum parts were unimaginative (Metallica & Grateful Dead (whom I have seen LIVE and yes with Jerry Garcia rocking out sideways) ftw there).

Since I don't drink, I actually got to go to a lot of concerts while at college because I was the "sensible one" who was also not really much fun. My friends would have fun, drink and get high; I'd do the driving.

---

**Einhorn** writes: Wow, I thought I was the only one left in the world who didn't drink. Good work Tipa! Us DDs gotta stick together!

After reading Openbottle1's post though it really shows me how much I've missed.

*gags self with finger*

sigh...it's just not the same...

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: I don't smoke, either, nor do I gamble, and I'm a Christian to boot. I am officially no fun whatsoever.

---

**Einhorn** writes: Yes, that all sounds very familiar - with the exception that I have no religion. I am a blank husk of a human being without gaming! I feel your pain!

---

**yunk** writes: The Boston music I loved was the Lemonheads, Blake Babies, and later their spinoffs Antenna and Juliana Hatfield's solo work. My roomate and I had a shrine to all of those bands in college. I used to have a crush on Juliana though my friends kept trying to tell me she was ugly. I only met her once after a Blake Babies show but could not convince her to hang out with me but I got their signatures at least.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Hmmmm only Boston band I remember seeing was The Stompers. But soon after becoming old enough to drink, I moved to California, so I missed out on the Boston scene by being three thousand miles away. Monterey (Cali) had some decent bands -- the Medflys, Eddie and the Tide, Robert Seidler, Red Beans & Rice -- but it wasn't really a hotbed of rock and roll.

---

**[Openedge1](http://simple-n-complex.blogspot.com)** writes: Ok...
You are back on my good side...you said Jethro Tull (who I saw, and was never drunk at...TWICE) and the ORIGINAL Journey...OMG...that first album...incredible (sans Steve and add Gregg Rolie and Aynsley Dunbar...a Zappa Alum)

So...you see? I understand...as I played in an 80's band jamming all that 70's stuff...hehe...drummer actually...
But, as I grew up. so did my music, and I like to listen to newer bands like Death Cab for Cutie, Cursive, Trail of Dead...a huge mixture...
But, I will never forget those old days....

Or maybe I should...lol (openbottle...nice one Einhorn)
Cya

---

