Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [March](./westkarana.md)
# Rabbyt, a Python-based sprite animation system

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-03-27 09:52:17*

Came across this [Python sprite package, Rabbyt](http://matthewmarshall.org/projects/rabbyt/) while looking for Python gaming development sites with [searchme](http://beta.searchme.com).

The current game I'm writing (when time permits) doesn't use sprites, but some tech demos I wrote do, and this looks like a pretty darn amazing package, able to do rotation and scaling and handle thousands of moving objects and collisions at incredible speed. My PyGame-based tech demos were struggling to get 60fps out of just forty or so sprites -- and I wasn't even testing collisions (well, they were supposed to be avoiding each other anyway). So I may have to revisit those demos and maybe there will be a game in there, after all.

I'll leave the difficulty of distributing a Python-based game in this era of Flash-based browser games for another time.

## Comments!

**Einhorn** writes: I am very interested to learn more about these games you're creating. You have so many views on how gaming should be that I find myself agreeing wholeheartedly with, whatever you're going to come up with I have no doubt it will be fun on a bun!

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Well, I can tell you what they are. I have two. One is called Raid, and is simply boss mob fights with frickin' incredible numbers of mobs all rushing around and showing some un-scripted, but hopefully semi-intelligent-seeming, behavior. This was the basis of my tech demo. It would be stripped down to its essence, and you would be able to bring up to four characters into the fight, and you would be able to deal with whatever you encountered, but it wouldn't be easy. Overhead view. Simplified graphics. Like Gauntlet, but more strategic. I wrote something similar to this years ago when I was working at Sony -- I wrote it as a Java applet there.

Second is called Hexed. It's a dueling game played out on two small hex grids, where you combine adjacent symbols to form spells and attacks, real-time. This is the game I have been designing for several months. I wanted to put it on Metaplace, but since I have no access to it and want to get started, I will just render it with Povray and write it in PyGame.

I'm not really worried about the delivery platform; both these are just proofs of concept and expect I will have to convert them to Flash if I want anyone but me to play them. But right now, I'd be happy if I could play them :)

---

**[rmckee78](http://otherlivesthanthisone.blogspot.com/)** writes: I love Python. I often can not use it for a final project but when I am trying to ballpark something or demo that we can do something it is perfect.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Yeah. In essence, that's what I'm doing here. I expect to convert it to Flash and (I hope) get the games into Kongregate or some other Flash game portal. But for now -- Python is the ultimate quick prototype language.

---

**[Ogrebears](http://www.ogrebear.com)** writes: OOO a python game... sexy.... haha i havn't made a game since i made a 3d first person shooter in my game design class.

---

