Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [February](./westkarana.md)
# EQ2 (et al): Top 10 questions answered

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-02-05 10:41:02*

My blog gets its share of people looking for llama sex videos and stuff, but most of the people who come here seem to be looking to have specific questions answered. So, I'll do my best.

10. **Playing Rock Band on Xbox Live** I assume you already have an Xbox Live account, and can connect to it. Rock Band has many, many ways to play online. The one you'll want to try first is the one where you form a band with people all over the world. From the main menu, choose Multiplayer > Quick Match and then log in with your instrument. The person whose Xbox Live account it is must log in first, then any other people locally, then you may invite friends over Xbox Live, and finally search for more players over Xbox Live. If a band is looking for the instruments you have in your band, you may be pulled into someone else's band. Regardless, only one person will be able to select the songs, and everyone must have the downloadable songs before they will be selectable from the menu. All instruments for the Xbox 360 version of Rock Band support the headset, so make sure you're wearing it, especially for the full band mode, so you can discuss which songs you'd like to play. I personally prefer doing random ranked Tug of War or Score Duels with people. Rock Band by yourself is only half a game.

9. **[The Mirror of Reflected Achievements](http://eq2.wikia.com/wiki/Mirror_of_Reflected_Achievements)** This crafted item lets you store one achievement profile and switch between it and another at will, as long as it and you are both in your house. It can be crafted by any crafter of level 75 or better, with at least 40,000 faction (ally) with their tradeskill society. The only way to build faction with your tradeskill society is by doing writs -- you will need to do a total of 267 writs, if you're starting from nothing, to get the necessary faction. The recipe is sold at each city's tradeskill faction merchant; in Freeport, it is in the Coalition of Tradesfolk crafting instance in West Freeport. The rare component is the Smoldering Reflective Shard, which drops in the non-instanced portion of Rise of Kunark dungeons, and reportedly in the Court of Korocust instance, though I have not seen it there. It is tradeable and sells for anywhere from 25p to 100p on my server. If you are on the Befallen server and need one made, my jeweler, Dorah, can do it for you. It has to be commissioned, as the mirror, when made, is not tradeable.

8. **The Weighted Companion Cube model** Lots of 3D modelers were inspired to make models of the Weighted Companion Cube from Portal. Why? I don't know! But I get a lot of people coming by asking about [the one I made](../../../index.php/povray-models/). I modeled mine with a freeware 3D modeler that produces files that run on the Persistence of Vision ray tracer (POVRay), of which I have been a devotee for at least a dozen years. I had to do a lot of hand tweaking to make it look right, and I could do it better. If I had to do it all over again, I would do it in Blender. I had this idea that I would start putting the WCC in various MMO scenes, just for fun. Anyway, not sure how much help it will be if you are not a POVRay modeler, but follow the link or go to the top of the main page of this blog and choose POVRay models and you'll see it there.

7. **[The Crypt of Agony](http://eq2.wikia.com/wiki/The_Crypt_of_Agony)** This is the Rise of Kunark's easy "loot" instance. It has a bunch of nameds, most of them can drop masters and legendary set armor, and the final boss can drop all that plus some very nice items like the Carotid Cutter and the Nathsar Shortblade. You get to it by first going to the City of Sebilis, fighting in and taking the center path. There are two potential nameds outside the crypt; a wandering golem who will either be the named or a placeholder; and a static named in front of the instance itself. The second named drops bard pants and bard bracers so... bring a bard! The most notable thing about the instance, aside from the sheer number of mobs, is that each one can cast a group debuff called Curse of the Crypt (I believe) which makes all spells and combat arts consume twice as much power. This can be cured with any elemental cure, and it can be interrupted, which makes inquisitors with their group elemental cure combined with their stunning/knockbacking/interrupting melee attacks uniquely well suited for the Crypt. The last mob randomly strips buffs from people and has a fairly damaging AE at 50%, so healers and nukers should stay well out of range, and the fight will be no problem.

6. **PS3 vs Xbox 360** I struggled over this, too. The PS3 has dropped precipitously in price recently, includes wireless or wired internet connections, connects seamlessly to the PSP, can be used as a standalone supercomputer or as a fairly high quality Blu-Ray HD DVD player. It doesn't have many exclusive "must-have" games, but it has some. The Xbox 360 is prone to hardware malfunctions, is noisy, does not come standard with a HD DVD player or a wireless internet connection, but it DOES connect fairly seamlessly to home computers running Vista or Windows Media Center, and of course, has a superior selection of games. Its Xbox Live is by far the most popular online console match-making service, so what it comes down to, is superior hardware (PS3) or superior games (Xbox 360, for now). If gaming is all you want to do with the console, Xbox is likely the best choice.

5. **Pawbuster** Pawbuster is one of the three Tier 1 RoK raids. He's a nasty drolvarg in an epic raid instance at the bottom of Karnor's Castle. CoS probably doesn't want their strats listed here, but I will say that he carries a huge hammer and he better watch out where he smashes it, because he just might break something if he does it in the wrong place.

4. **The Overking** Before you see the Overking, one of the two Tier 2 raids, you'll have to fight through his legion of followers. The nameds drop fairly decent loot. I couldn't even begin to describe the fight against the Overking himself. Well, I could, and it probably wouldn't do any good because it's all about shifting with the various tides and currents of the fight. It is exhilarating when it all goes well, though. The Overking lives in the Throne of Kor-Sha at the bottom of Chardok.

3. **[The Fate of Norrath](http://eq2.wikia.com/wiki/The_Fate_of_Norrath)** This is the quest that takes you through the keying to Veeshan's Peak. It's widely thought that you need this quest to become keyed for VP, and that is not the case. In fact, if all you did was the bare minimum to progress the quest, you would not end up able to enter Veeshan's Peak, as it only requires one of Venril Sathir or the Overking, but the keying requires them both. The Fate of Norrath can be gotten by examining some corpses behind the City of Mist in Kunzar Jungle. It is NOT needed to become keyed for VP, but you might as well do it at the same time, right? After you kill Leviathon -- the Tier 3 raid -- you'll be attacked when you talk to the quest NPC. Bring friends.

2. **Mythos Beta Invites** Occasionally, Flagship gives all members of the beta more beta invites. They only give a couple out, and I always give them away here on this blog, and they always get snapped up almost immediately. I don't currently have any beta invites. Flagship doesn't know me from anyone, so I don't get big bunches to give away (though if someone from Flagship WANTS me to give bunches away, just toss them in my account and they shall be given). Mythos is a fun but ultimately repetitive game without any particular plot other than to go to some randomly generated dungeon and put the hurt on all you find. If you only have fifteen minutes to spare, you could do worse than to spend it on a quick Mythos dungeon run. Emphasizing: I don't have any beta invites. I had to close comments to my posts about Mythos because of this.

1. **Venril Sathir** My number one search term for the past month: Venril Sathir. He lives at the very back of the basement of the City of Sebilis, in an instance guarded by Warlord Kotiz or something like that. The Warlord is a level 84 single group encounter needed for at least one Outer Sebilis quest and drops fairly nice loot, so definitely break off a group from the raid and kill him for the loot if he's up. Like the other raid mobs, it's not my place to explain how Clan of Shadows kills him. He is a fun fight. Most Rise of Kunark raids are fairly fun -- some are quite reminiscent of EQ1 raids, but few people, I imagine, have done those.

Well, that's it for tonight, I think. If the info about these search terms helped you at all, then I'm happy. That's what I want them to do.

## Comments!

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Split this post from the previous one. They weren't really related.

---

