Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2020](/posts/2020/westkarana.md) > [July](./westkarana.md)
# Gloomhaven: Jaws of the Lion printing project

*Posted by Tipa on 2020-07-06 11:16:50*


I'm printing all the scenarios in Gloomhaven: Jaws of the Lion, in collaboration with my boyfriend, on a filament and a resin 3D printer. After the printing comes the painting. I know nothing about painting terrain or miniatures, but what better time to learn? This is all to make the best Gloomhaven, Jaws of the Lion and Frosthaven playing experience we can create.



Every time we play, it will be epic.



The first three scenarios have around fifty hexes.



I've chosen the [MagHex magnetic tile system](\"https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:3530085\") for the JotL scenarios. These bases have little 6x3mm magnets inserted into them, and they snap together with a click. I'll probably eventually need a hundred of them. A set of seven takes about five hours to print, though I am very conservative on print speed. I'm waiting on more magnets so I can finish magnetizing all the bases.



The terrain for the first scenario is all dirt. I'm printing dirt tiles (in white) and will need as many of those as there are magnetized bases for the first scenario. The second scenario transitions from dirt outside to a cave interior, but I'll likely just continue to use the dirt tiles. The third one takes place on the docks and in a decrepit ship, so the next printing target will be fifty wooden floor tiles. A flagstone floor comes after.



Each batch of seven terrain tiles takes about three hours to print. Unknown how long it will take to paint them; we're considering airbrushing at least the dirt tiles.



The first scenario contains eight rocks for the Demolitionist to destroy. Those are done and painted, though I may print more in case a Cragheart comes to visit and make more of them.



The second and succeeding scenarios introduce walls and doors, but right now I'm focused on the vertical slice -- get scenario 1 to completion, shake out the issues with the MagHex system, and determine if all this works affects actual gameplay in a good way. We had plenty of fun with unpainted minis, cardboard tiles and monster standees, after all.



I've been having a lot of trouble printing the colored, numbered bases for the enemy minis...



## Comments!

**Tipa** writes: Agh! Facebook? I don't use Facebook :-( I occasionally see printed boards over on Reddit, though, and am constantly amazed and inspired.

---

**Nandy** writes: Have you joined the GH facebook group? A lot of us share our 3d printed boards there :)

---

