Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2009](/posts/2009/westkarana.md) > [January](./westkarana.md)
# Inhabitants of Spellborn not the brightest bulbs in the Deadspell Storm

*Posted by Tipa on 2009-01-02 14:09:45*

In Spellborn, The Enclave is the collective name for the good, law-abiding survivors of the destruction of their planet that followed the defeat of their alien oppressors. Since they are good people, they punish evil doers and other criminal sorts only with exile, where they have set up an outcast faction called the Ousted.

Once your family is Ousted, you never, ever get back in. Not your children, not their children, innocents suffer forever for the crimes of their ancestors.

So, the main tension in Chronicles of Spellborn is stopping the more barbaric factions of the Ousted from coming back and killing everyone and ruining everything in their anger.

Kinda makes you think that maybe the Enclave really were the cause of their own misery here? No place for forgiveness or rehabilitation. You're a good guy until it's proven you're a bad guy, then you and your family are Ousted for all time.

And what are a lot of the quests in Spellborn all about? That's right. Killing the Ousted. Instead of properly punishing their ancestors, you send out newbies to slaughter their children.

Who DOESN'T think the ruling House, House Torque, is just filled with fascist tinpot dictators? I'd like to get a good look at the kind of person that would join Torque. And not because I'm from House Rune. I hated Torque way before I joined the House of Librarians.

## Comments!

**almagill** writes: Is this still in beta, Tipa? Or is it cos I is in the EU that I don't seem to be able to play?

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Chronicles of Spellborn is only officially released in a few countries in Europe. Ireland and the UK are part of the Acclaim launch. There is no release date that anyone believes from Acclaim. [They just posted today](http://phpbb.acclaim.com/spellborn/viewtopic.php?t=546) that they are holding off on the closed beta while they wait for files from a third party vendor. Their most recently scheduled release date is January 9th -- next Friday -- but there is nobody that gives that date any sort of credence at all.

I am playing the German release that I ordered from Amazon Europe back in November. 60 days free play with no limits :)

---

**[Beau](http://www.mmocam.com)** writes: Yeh I am house Shroud, and they just seem to be obsessed with sorting through the dirty laundry of the other houses. 
 
 I have been killing alot, but not as much Ousted. Mostly other people in town.

 The story is nice, though, for sure.
 
 And the children pick their noses too much! lol

 Beau

---

**[Sente](http://adingworld.wordpress.com)** writes: I really like the main story in the quests (for Rune) and some of the side stories are pretty good also. Unfortunately I am currently stuck in the main Rune story due to a bug in a quest (Vemsin in Distress).

It is a lot of running though.

---

**almagill** writes: I love it when a game goes out through different distributers in different postcode areas... *gnnnnffff*

Right, time to dust off my schoolbook German, heh

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: @Sente bug as in three attackers show but you need to kill four?

Yup. Same thing.

---

**[Sente](http://adingworld.wordpress.com)** writes: @Tipa: Yep, that bug.

Seems that people have worked around it if doing the quest together with someone who has not done the quest, so they can spawn additional attackers.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: I'm totally up for helping you complete the quest. I'm likely to be rerolling when the Acclaim version goes live (if ever), so I can take the hit on this one until they fix it.

---

**[Sente](http://adingworld.wordpress.com)** writes: I think it actually completes for both in that case, at least that seemed to be the case from the comments I read in the forum. We can certainly try at some point.

---

