Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2009](/posts/2009/westkarana.md) > [July](./westkarana.md)
# Wizard 101 gift cards galore!

*Posted by Tipa on 2009-07-15 18:42:41*

I think this might be old news, but here it is: KingsIsle is sending out truckfulls of gift cards to department stores and electronics outlets the world over. Using Crowns garnered by redeeming the gift cards in game is, by far, the cheapest way of enjoying W101. You pay as you go, don't pay when you don't play, and you never lose access to areas you have already bought, even if you never play again.

They're a good deal, and they're pretty much everywhere, now.


> WIZARD101® LAUNCHES PREPAID GIFT CARD PROGRAM IN SELECT RETAILERS
Wizard101 gift card distribution expands to include major retail stores

PLANO, TEXAS (July 8, 2009) – KingsIsle Entertainment, Inc., creator of high quality, downloadable, family-friendly MMO’s, announces the release of Wizard101® prepaid gift cards in major retailers nationwide. Wizard101’s prepaid gift cards are available in $10 and $20 increments, depending on location, and include a limited edition in-game collectible pet that can protect and assist Wizards as they venture through spell-binding virtual worlds.

Earlier this year, Wizard101 launched their prepaid gift card program in all Rite Aid® and 7-Eleven® stores nationwide. After the program’s successful start, KingsIsle has expanded the gift card program to include distribution at the following retail outlets, with anticipated launch dates specified below.

· Blockbuster® (Release date - June 29)
· Best Buy® (Release date - July 15)
· Wal-Mart® (Release date - July 27)
· Toys “R” Us® (Release date - August 3)

“Wizard101’s prepaid gift cards provide young members of our growing community easier access to the game’s premium content and gives parents a fun, convenient gift that kids can enjoy for days,” said KingsIsle CEO Elie Akilian.

Prepaid gift cards provide players, especially those without a credit card, access to “Crowns” Wizard101’s in game currency. “Crowns” help players access new worlds and can be used to purchase virtual goods such as wands, treasure cards and advanced equipment for their characters.

Wizard101 players enter the magical world of Wizard City as student Wizards setting out to hone their Wizard skills, cast spells and summon powerful creatures to fight evil forces. The characters and worlds of Wizard101 are influenced by literature, history and pop culture, giving the game a depth and quality appreciated by adults and enjoyable for families to play together. The game provides a safe online, virtual environment for kids to game together by offering special community chat levels and parental controls.

About KingsIsle Entertainment, Inc.

Founded in 2005, with operations in the Dallas area and Austin, KingsIsle is creating massively multiplayer online entertainment offerings that are innovative, compelling, uncommon and of high quality. They have brought together a team of highly creative, energetic, accomplished and skilled professionals to develop these projects. The team consists of individuals with unique and in-depth experience in the development of video games, online environments, communications and commercial software. For more information, please visit www.kingsisle.com.

KingsIsle and Wizard101 are trademarks or registered trademarks of KingsIsle Entertainment Inc.




## Comments!

**[Tesh](http://tishtoshtesh.wordpress.com/)** writes: Some reference points:

Card Crown rates: ($10=5000 Crowns, $20=10,000 Crowns, which is on par with getting Crowns for similar prices through the W101 website)
https://www.wizard101.com/site/home2/wizard101/page\_8ad6a404207fb2fd0120a1589af60841

Area Access Pass pricing:
https://www.wizard101.com/site/home2/wizard101/page\_8ad6a40420d20fcf0120d3bfc8960079

A bit of elementary school math should give players a sense of how far their gift cards can go, at least if they are being used for Access Passes. (There are also optional areas like the Sunken City and Tomb of the Beguiler that you can skip if you want and still progress through the Spiral.)

---

