Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2009](/posts/2009/westkarana.md) > [July](./westkarana.md)
# W101: Drake apologises for lack of new high level content

*Posted by Tipa on 2009-07-20 11:21:34*

Famed sociopath and brother to the villain Malistaire, Professor Drake of Myth school, apologizes for the lack of a level cap increase in Grizzleheim.

Drake, this is the second time you've come before we students with an apology. Stop it! You're Professor Drake!
 

> Maximum Level / Grandmaster XP
 
Wizard101 friends, fans, and customers,
 
When we first envisioned our sixth world we saw it as a world Wizards would experience after Dragonspyre. This world would have increased the maximum level beyond 50 and the supporting content (new spells, equipment, etc) necessary for the max level increase. However, when we dug into the overall Wizard101 game play and what would best serve our community we decided to launch Grizzleheim, a world that created a parallel experience and offered new content and experiences as players leveled thru the entire game and the other five worlds. While we hope that high level characters find the content enjoyable and engaging the immediate downside to this decision was that no level increase was introduced with this world.
 
Our decision to launch Grizzleheim also afforded us the ability to address several features that you, our community, had asked for. Features like the ability to group with other Wizards, control friend requests, trade request and new systems like crafting and the bazaar. We felt they were good, valuable additions, and so we made a decision to include them for all players new and old to enjoy.
 
That said, we did mention to our highest level players that the level cap would be raised this summer and we were not able to make that goal a reality. We apologize for that and would like say that we are continuing forward with plans to release new worlds that do push Wizards beyond level 50. In order to accomplish it, we need to make sure there are new opponents, quests, worlds, spells, and more.
 
If you’re close to or already at level 50, we invite you to explore Grizzleheim, the new crafting system, and the Bazaar and hope you are interested in seeing what new things we have in store for you soon.
Thank you for playing Wizard101!

Cyrus Drake
Professor of Myth
Ravenwood School of Magical Arts
En Magus Nos Fides



 
## Comments!

**[Tesh](http://tishtoshtesh.wordpress.com)** writes: Ah, but when Drake apologizes, does he really mean it? Or is it just setting us up for something else, another twist of the proverbial knife?

Hmm... the perils of posting as faculty.

---

**Echowing** writes: In terms of Wizard 101, I don't have a lvl 50 so I can't be too empathetic with those that do. On the flip side, I've played many mmos to max level and was always angered when the level cap was raised. You spend quite a bit of time hunting around for the best loot for your level and then, with a quick patch, the rug is pulled out from under you. I've always enjoyed making new characters, but hated the boredom of leveling them through the same old places. I think that making parallel content is the right choice. If World of Warcraft had done that better, I'd still be playing it. I do, however, like the idea of adding more instanced dungeons of greater difficulty to give a purpose to grouping and gathering loot. Right now, that is mainly the thrust of the pvp, which is great, but some people just like the pve. I tend to be about 90% pve 10% pvp, but I'm sure that will change when I cap. Also, just a little pet peeve here: can't we please have just one FREE respec not tied to level? I know people are willing to pay the money, but it would help people with analysis paralysis from worrying too much at the outset how they spend their training points. Apparently there is a respec available that I passed by with no knowledge of it. At low level do you really know if you've spent your points badly? Sorry for the change of subject.

---

