Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [January](./westkarana.md)
# MMO: Five second quiz

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-01-20 01:51:23*

Quickly, you haven't much time.

Which game, after a four hour patch, did I have to drop my resolution down from 1680x1050 to 1240x782 to play at an acceptable frame rate, dropped me through the world, attacked me with monsters I couldn't attack back because the game said I couldn't see it when it was right in front of me, have doors that only become visible once I get real close, and rebooted my system for me while I was talking to an NPC?

You have five seconds. Hint: What do you call a multiplayer game you play alone?

Stumped?

I doubt it.

But I don't want to rant about this game, yet. Too many people have. I want to seek out the good things.

First impressions aren't good, though.

Diplomacy for the win, but still reminds me of Oblivion's.

## Comments!

**David** writes: I was gonna guess Vanguard.. .. but then you go and give away the answer in your tag.. :P

---

**[Mythokia](http://blog.thermonuclearexchange.com)** writes: Didn't notice the tag before I came up with my guess, but "MMO" and "diplomacy" screams Vanguard.

---

**Barely** writes: I wanted to like Vanguard, I really did. But after the last month I swore I wouldn't waste another $15 on what could have been EQ or EQ2, hell even SWG. I love the world of Vanguard, I love the lore and I love the races. Its so rare to see a game that tries to expand the norm and (yes, my favorite word) innovate in the mmo market. I want to like Vanguard, but its a broken game. Makes me wanna cry.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Well, VG is free for me since I have Station Pass on my main account, but I can't see it becoming my main game.

Without the tag or the mention of diplomacy, though, I could have been talking about EQ1 and probably many other games. You could get away with that once. People expected they would be beta testing a game for its first few months live, and nobody liked it, but it was expected. WoW changed that. It's this change in attitude that hurt Vanguard the most.

---

