Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2007](/posts/2007/westkarana.md) > [October](./westkarana.md)
# Music my sister might like...

*Posted by Tipa on 2007-10-12 02:03:55*

So every month or so, my sister comes in from New York. I meet her at the train station in New Haven, we spend the night at my apartment and then she and her daughter and I and my son all pile in the VW and head to New Hamster Hampshire to visit our stepmother and any other relatives who forgot to be away that weekend.

Music's always a problem. She doesn't like Radiohead, Jeff Beck, Sneaker Pimps, Portishead, etc -- *my* music. And I don't generally like her music.

Last time, she made a wonderful five CDs of songs she thought we would both like -- and I did! The Cure, Elvis Costello, Human League, all sorts of great 80s stuff.

I scoured my CD collection (hundreds of them) and distilled them down to one CD that has songs I like and she might... I hope... Nothing too weird... Here's what I came up with:

 2. Aretha Franklin -- House that Jack Built

 4. Blue Oyster Cult -- Harvest Moon

 6. Boa -- Duvet

 8. Boston -- Something About You

 10. Crash Test Dummies -- Superman's Song

 12. Dream Theater -- Pull Me Under

 14. Echolyn -- Best Regards

 16. Gorillaz -- Feel Good, Inc.

 18. Jethro Tull -- Cold Wind to Valhalla

 20. King Crimson -- Heartbeat

 22. Wanderlust -- I Walked

 24. The Seatbelts -- Tank!

 26. Gary Numan -- Down in the Park

 28. Throwing Muses -- Freeloader

 30. Oingo Boingo -- No Spill Blood

 32. The Ataris --  So Long, Astoria

 34. Matchbox 20 -- Disease

 36. Tracy Bonham -- Mother, Mother



Do people even like rock anymore? Sometimes I feel like the last fan of a dying genre...
## Comments!

**[Genjer Leigh](http://www.michaelstuartsalsero.com)** writes: Go with that feeling. lol People like rock just not jeff beck. lol j/k

I appreciate the CD - of course you made one and I made FIVE ::coughs:: 

Of course my CDs were conspicuously missing from your car. (scratches head in confusion)

It good to get back to NH but not so good having to stay up until 11pm doing homework with Jazzmin Sunday Night.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: I took them inside to rip them...

I was going to do more CDs with different themes, but I ran out of time. I wanted to do one with just songs, not hard-ish rock like the one I made, but smoother stuff, and one with Irish music so we can get our Irish-American on.

Maybe by Thanksgiving :) Also, I know what I'm getting Jazz for Christmas, Guitar Hero 1 and 80s, but what should I get for YOU?

I almost put a Jeff Beck song on just to see if you'd notice... but then I didn't. The only songs I feel were mistakes were Gary Numan's song, which doesn't fit at all (though I like it, it is not rock), and Jethro Tull's "Cold Wind to Valhalla", since "Skating Away" fits in that spot so much better. Probably "Tank!" should have been replaced with the song I originally had there, Little Feat's "Let It Roll", but I like the song so much I figured I'd see how you liked it. "Let It Roll" will probably be on the next one. I also wimped out by putting one of Buck Dharma's ballads, "Harvest Moon", on for BOC instead of the song I wanted to put on, "7 Screaming Dizbusters", the live version from "On Your Feet or On Your Knees", because a) it's long and b) I don't think you'd like the theme. For the "Songs" CD, I'm putting on "Then Came the Last Days of May", but I might put on "I Love the Night" instead.

---

**[RayRay](http://Nonerightnow)** writes: "The Red and the Black...it is their color scheme.."
Oh man, I use to be a BOC fanatic...see them whenever they came to town...also had seen Jethro Tull 3 times.... but, I was also a musician, and always played things from BOC, Judas Priest, Poison, Bruce Springsteen, etc...
It had changed me ..as now, I strive for new things, as I had played it or heard it all before.....so, if the band gets no radio play, I probably own it (lol)..I also need something that has not been done before, as my feelings of Poison, Wasp, and all of the hair bands destroyed my love of that genre of music.. 
Now, I will spin up Death Cab for Cutie, Portishead, Trail of the Dead, and some old Shoegaze stuff like Slowdive...and finally one musician who never aged...David Bowie..(who still strives for uniquity and still is relevant to this day)..
Anyway, been visiting your site for a couple weeks now (as I am new to EQ2, so try to read all I can about it..)and enjoy the screenshots and stories...thank you so much...
In closing...
All music is a blessing, so whether you listen to BoC or Aretha or Human League or Death Cab, or Beethoven...it all is good no matter what....
Cheers!

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: I love Portishead... if you're into them, check out Undadogg, you'll be glad you did.

---

**[Genjer Leigh](http://www.michaelstuartsalsero.com)** writes: I was just playing re: your making more CDs.

Guitar Hero with the 80s version is perfect. How about a second guitar for the game and that'll be my present?

The Wii sports if fun but I think if we owned it that we'd play it until we got bored and it would lose its appeal. Esp. if all the other Wii games aren't good, as you say. It's better to have long breakes from it and then come to your apartment and play it.

You know, when I enter my comiments - there is a certain point where I can keep typing but cant''s see what itis I am typing. Hopefully you can fix that.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: We hardly ever play the Wii when you're not around, though Drew and I did have a bit of a tennis tournament last week. Fact is, Wii Sports is the best game out for the Wii right now. Mario Galaxy might be worth playing.

You need to view this site on a wider monitor. The theme edges into the comment area on smaller monitors. I probably can fix it...

---

**[Genjer Leigh](http://www.michaelstuartsalsero.com)** writes: Well I'll ask my job to get me a larger screen to view your blog properly, but somehow I don't think they'll comply. ;)

---

