Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [November](./westkarana.md)
# Headmaster Ambrose hints at Wizard 101 expansion

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-11-06 15:23:19*

After months of speculation over the school of magic Ambrose, Headmaster of Wizard 101's Ravenwood Academy, prefers, Ambrose has revealed that he is a [master of all schools of magic](https://www.wizard101.com/site/posts/list/2471.ftl).

But his current studies go beyond the Inner magics (Life, Death and Myth) and the Outer magics (Fire, Ice and Storm) to the Astral magics (Sun, Moon and Stars).

I think we can be pretty certain that renegade necromancer Malistaire would be pretty interested in exploiting the power of the darkness between the stars.

---

KingsIsle hasn't started whispering the magic words "expansion" yet, but with hints like this, they must be thinking about it. Many players are concerned that the Dragonspyre patch is taking so long. The last word on it from KI was that the Halloween events should 'give us something to do while waiting for Dragonspyre'. This has the buzz in Wizard City saying Dragonspyre would be released right after the Halloween event, which ends tomorrow. The November newsletter, though, remains mum on it, and if it doesn't come this month, then it's unlikely to come in December, when they will likely be doing a Winter holiday-themed event.

That brings us to January for the earliest date for Dragonspyre if they don't want to step on holiday events. By that time, the vast majority of regular players will be high enough level to go to Dragonspyre, but it's easy to believe those people who have been waiting for the fifth world for months, by then, may have already moved on.

## Comments!

**[Kanthalos](http://mmoreinsight.com)** writes: I enjoyed myself quite a bit when I was playing this in beta, and I would love to start playing it now, I just really don't have the time. Between WAR, Fable 2, Unreal Tournament 3, and real life, I just feel too pooped to even blog. Hopefully once I get into the groove of "real life" and attain some sense of normalcy, I will be able to both blog and play this game. Then again, I have another beta that I've fallen out of touch with, other games I want to play, books I want to read, learn to play piano, AAAAARRRGHHHHHH, SOMEBODY HELP! :)

---

**[crookshankz](http://thegaminggoob.wordpress.com)** writes: How do you think an expansion would work on a free game? Perhaps when you hit Dragonspyre you'll get to learn a 3rd school? I'm not sure but, the game is definately fun and can't wait to see how everything gets worked out!

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: I doubt they would charge anything for an expansion. They have a new "pay to unlock" plan which, I think, is working out well for them, where you can just pay a little when you come to a new place that is locked because you are not a subscriber.

I expect that any expansion would, given the kid-oriented nature of the game, come with a new newbie experience introducing the new schools of magic, which would lead players through the old world and then through new places, much like SOE did with EQ2's Rise of Kunark expansion.

---

**dug** writes: I really enjoyed W101, but I got to Mooshu in just a couple of weeks after release and put it down. I really couldn't work all the way though the zone knowing there was nothing more when I got done. Guess it just goes to show that Conan, WAR, and WoLK won't be the only games that go live w/o being complete.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: That's an excellent point. I knew that it would end, though, so I took it really slow. It's only been recently that I ramped up purely so I could be ready for Dragonspyre when it came out.

---

**ryan** writes: when does grizzleheim open

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Later this month is all we know -- probably a week or so after it goes to test, which hasn't yet happened.

---

**[Fred Wolfbane](http://moonwolffe2001@aol.com)** writes: I have been playing Dragonspyre for a couple of days and have lit up the fourth tower's crystal. Zarathrax told me that a portal would open when i did that but no portal has opened. Is this a glitch?
I could use a little help as the quest compass doesn't help much.

---

**wikky** writes: i cant even get past the part after i defeat the hanchmen when u begin he wont come down?

---

