Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [November](./westkarana.md)
# Shop smart, shop S-Mart, in Connecticut

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-11-07 10:21:32*

Bruce Campbell, star of 'Evil Dead' and 'Bubba Ho-Tep', et al, is in true old-time 'B' movie fashion, traveling from city to city with his latest film, 'My Name if Bruce', where he plays an over the top, 'B' movie version of himself... [From the Hartford, CT *Courant*](http://www.courant.com/entertainment/movies/reviews/hc-brucerev.artnov07,0,474227.story):


> Campbell stars as himself, the B-movie superstar most famous for his iconic presence as Ash in Sam Raimi's "Evil Dead" movies. Not all of Campbell's star turns are classics, however. Many of them are swill, like "Maniac Cop," "Mindwarp," "Alien Apocalypse," "The Man with the Screaming Brain" and myriad sequels, threequels and prequels.

As the movie opens, Bruce is shooting a cheesy sequel, and pissing off all his co-workers, fans and casual acquaintances with his arrogance and movie-star bullying. At night he goes to his rundown motor home to share a bottle of hooch with his dog and call his ex-wife while plastered.



He'll be in Hartford's Cinema City Sunday after the 7:30 and 9:45PM showings, and in New Haven's Criterion Cinema Wednesday Evening.

Should be fun :)

## Comments!

**[Openedge1](http://simple-n-complex.blogspot.com)** writes: Been waiting for this movie...

This guy is a legend, and he is fun to watch.

I really liked the stuff he has done no matter how campy.

You can even catch a VERY short lived show on hulu.com called "Jack of all trades" with a Pirate theme...[Bruce is Jack!](http://www.hulu.com/search/bruce+campbell?company=all&showname=jack+of+all+trades&type=all).

I suggest everyone enjoy the goofiness in reverence to Bruce!

---

**fps_dean** writes: I saw it in New Haven, it was absolutely hilarious especially being a Bruce Campbell fan and having seen his earlier movies so I understood the inside jokes too (if you saw Army of Darkness, you'll get most of them).

He satirizes himself, his career, his fans, horror movies in general, rednecks... etc.

Then we got a Q&A with Bruce at the end of the movie too which was cool and he was very funny too!

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Oh, crap. I wrote this and forgot entirely to put it on my calendar. Things not on my calendar, I forget to do :(

Sounds like a blast! WISH I'D BEEN THERE!

---

