Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2007](/posts/2007/westkarana.md) > [June](./westkarana.md)
# Bioware to use "Stream Processing Engine"

*Posted by Tipa on 2007-06-12 10:48:16*

About the first thing I ever heard about Vanguard was that it was based on the Unreal 3 graphics engine. And the game turned out to be graphics intensive.

[Bioware](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BioWare) [has announced](http://www.informationweek.com/internet/showArticle.jhtml?articleID=199902853&subSection=Internet) they will be using StreamBase's "Stream Processing Engine" as the basis for this game -- technology that can track hundreds of thousands of simultaneous actions in the world. They claim this will let them add more scripted and interactive elements to the world...

I like the concept, though I know nothing of the game. Technology that will allow for more storytelling and personalization in a game? I think that's an excellent start.

I don't want DirectX 10 or zillion dollar graphics. I want a *fun game*. It can play on a calculator as long as it's *fun*. Graphic complexity does not make something fun. EQ2 proved that -- it had cutting edge graphics oozing from every pore, but wasn't as fun as the less intensely graphic World of Warcraft. I had fun in MUDs and had months of fun with Nethack -- neither of which have any graphics at all.

Of course, text-based games are a hard sell these days, and I do like graphics. But they should serve the fun, not the other way around.

So, good news from Bioware. They aren't focused solely on making a pretty game.
## Comments!

**[Stingite](http://minstrelmagnet.blogspot.com/)** writes: I feel the need to break into the FUN song from Spongebob Squarepants!

---

