Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2009](/posts/2009/westkarana.md) > [March](./westkarana.md)
# EQ2: Latest arrivals in the Station Marketplace

*Posted by Tipa on 2009-03-12 07:47:08*

Too long has the EQ2 Station Marketplace modeling job been dominated by "sexy" or "good looking" or even "somewhat attractive" models. It's time for a change. It's time for the gnomes to take over.

The annual Brewday festival starts today (I think), but you won't need to be drunk to grab these fine new hats and outfits for a little bit of cash.



|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
|
 everquest2-2009-03-11-19-29-59-07 |

 everquest2-2009-03-11-19-31-47-36 |

 everquest2-2009-03-11-20-43-23-71 |




Show off your love of 70s-era live television comedy with your very own "Beldar and Prymatt Conehead" hat. Just the thing for 'imbibing mass quantities' on Brewday! For vertically-challenged gnomes, this hat has another feature -- now you're taller than any dwarf in the room! They will back away from your gnomish awesomeness as you cheerfully explain how the ratio of the height to the circumference of your hat is EXACTLY the same as the ratio of Master Dwarf's intelligence to his hobnailed boot size! HA!

Think gnomes are 'funny' or 'cute' or 'amusingly easy to slaughter'? THINK AGAIN! Straha of WTFComics showed the world just how [deadly gnomish monks could be](http://www.wtfcomics.com/archive.html?344_13) with the adventures of the clan of the Waist Down Fist. Now you can be an honorary member of the WDF with this lovely red gi. Tsuki is topping off the outfit with a Witch Hunter's Hat, so you can both be a deadly gnomish brawler with a washboard-flat bosom, AND keep up your treasured pasty-white complexion.

Ettie, the halfling on the right, isn't modeling RMT clothes. She just wanted to show off her "Journeyman's Boot quest Bard" outfit... just because...

Happy Brewday! And remember, this Brewday -- gnomes are NOT for setting your drinks upon (nor for setting on fire. SERIOUSLY now, folks.)

## Comments!

**[Kasul](http://shatteredblog.wordpress.com)** writes: The Abomination Hunting Hat looks good on a Sarnak, with the brim pulled down over the eyes. I'll have to post a picture.

Happy Brewday!

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: I will probably buy that hat when I can find a good outfit to match it with. I tried last night but couldn't find any cotton dress shirts under leather jackets on the broker. Did find some whips, though.

I might put Ettie's woven augmented "bard" armor on Dina... it's just such a retro EQ2 look. Not sure if that stuff still drops since the RunnyEye revamp, does it? I've had the bp for it for years but noticed there were none on the broker last night.

---

**[Happy Brewday! &laquo; Shattered](http://shatteredblog.wordpress.com/2009/03/12/happy-brewday/)** writes: [...] are two new helms and a new armor set available in the Marketplace, as you may have seen modeled by gnomes on another blog. I wanted to post pics of the helms as they appear on a Sarnak for anyone who may be [...]

---

**[Another Average Guy](http://anotheraverageguy.wordpress.com)** writes: These models are too damn skinny! Feed them a sandwich... give them a philly cheesesteak! Something!

---

