Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2009](/posts/2009/westkarana.md) > [April](./westkarana.md)
# Wizard 101 Gift Cards at 7/11

*Posted by Tipa on 2009-04-30 15:22:37*

Tonight, our friend Nameless, the Nameless Builder Turtle, will be heading back to Wizard City to find out what his or her name will be. It's been great having her -- or him -- with us these past ten days, and I think all of us here look forward to seeing the homes s/he'll make. English REALLY needs non-gender specific pronouns.

Straight from KingsIsle offices in Texas, this already widely-reported news:

---

PLANO, TEXAS - April 30, 2009 - Online entertainment company KingsIsle Entertainment, Inc. has announced a gift card program for family-friendly hit game Wizard101® (www.wizard101.com), which recently surpassed two million unique users who have registered to play the game. 

Starting today, $10 prepaid Wizard101 gift cards are available in 7-Eleven® stores nationwide. Purchasing through local outlets offers friends, family and fans of the 3D virtual world of Wizards and spell-casting more options for unlocking advanced game content. 

“Wizard101 gift cards give our growing community more flexibility and parental control in their purchases – beginning with a way to purchase advanced game content in a store,” said KingsIsle CEO Elie Akilian. 

The $10 price point makes Wizard101 gift cards an affordable birthday gift, allowance treat, or a fun surprise for the in-game pet collector. With the new gift cards, players who don’t have a credit card will have more independence in the way they spend small increments in the game, whether they decide to unlock new areas of the game or purchase equipment and accessories for their Wizard101 characters, such as wands, treasure cards and holiday items. 

Each card offers a limited edition collectible pet available upon redemption from one of four special sets: Protectors, Assistants, Adventurers, and Heroes. Pets from these sets will give players better powers such as increased accuracy, defense, damage, and a special spell card that can be used during duels. 

In addition to the special abilities listed above, the gift card pets will be available in colors, patterns, and clothing that cannot be found anywhere else in the game. The first set, Protectors, are available now. Each month beginning in May, a new set will become available to gift card purchasers upon redemption. 

## Comments!

**HollerBaller** writes: wow i didn't know that many people played this game

---

**[Sierra StarSong](http://starsongky.livejournal.com)** writes: I wish Wal-Mart carried the cards, there isn't a 7-Eleven within 200 miles of me.

---

**Keira Spellbreaker** writes: I just checked my local 7 eleven store today and there were no wizard101 gift cards at all. We asked the guy that worked there and he said he's never heard of those!!!!! I was all set on buying one i am mad!

---

**[nono891](http://wizard101.com)** writes: I am going for a very long walk to 7/11 to get my gift card pack with my $10.00 I hope I have better luck than Keira Spellbreaker.

---

**Rite Aid** writes: Rite Aid is better try their it is how I'm getting mine

---

**phenixmaster** writes: 5/10/09-6:37p.m.me and my teacher is looking for a wizard 101 gifted card,and so far we an't having any luck.I want a wizard 101 gifted card so bad.so anybody who knows where a wizard 101 gifted card is at.please make a comment on this page.thank you.

---

**master wizard** writes: I went to 7/11 and Rite Aid and they weren't there not even behind the counter! i had $40.00 and was so excitet i was so mad when i got there

---

**mr. mario** writes: .......RIGHT AID IS OUT OF BUSINESS!!! I CANT FIND ANY CARDS ANYWARE IM SO MAD I WAS EXCITED TO GET ONE BUT THEY ARENT ANYWHERE!!! IM GOING TO CVS AND 711 PLUS A GAME STORE AT THE MALL AND THERE BETTER BE BE ONE. im gettin a 20 dollar gift card.

---

**Connor** writes: I think they should make them at EB Games/Gamestop. I think that because those do sell Habbo pre-paid cards and I think they would really sell them there plus they have good locations (at least in Canada).

---

**shadowera** writes: Lol i drove to 5 different 7/11 and none at any fudge man if anyone in hawaii know where to get please share man
share.

---

**Jeff** writes: The ten dollar gift cards are already showing up at 7-11 stores, I got a power dragon pet. The rite aid stores have are in the distribution phase and the cards are supposed to show up sometime next week and they will have the ten and twenty dollar cards. It is rumored the pig is the twenty dollar card but since i have not seen it I cannot confirm this rumor.

---

**Kalven** writes: i'm going to get mine to day i still don't know if they have it in astin and 7/11

---

**Kalven** writes: if they don't have it i'll be mad 
they don't have it at wall mart!! thats...stupid realy!!!???

---

**Kalven** writes: how many things do you get with $10.00 crowns or coins? how many?

---

**Myrna Boyer** writes: There is not a 711 or Rite Aid anywhere around where I live. There isn't even a Rite Aid in the state. Why cant you purchase these on line like you can the crowns. It is so unfair for those of us unable to find one of those stores.

---

**Azurewinds** writes: I got the dragon at 7-11. Gives you an extra power point. A friend saw the $20 card at rite aid it's a ninja pig. Hopefully they will still have some tomorrow.

---

**[naruto](http://aol.com)** writes: Go to rite aid or a local phrmacy they have it there to.

---

**[Flyin'Brian](http://workcertain.com)** writes: I just saw a couple of these on ebay. Item 190311907358 is a $10 card and 190311908040 is a $20 card. I might just get both.

---

**[Flyin'Brian](http://workcertain.com)** writes: Looks like those are already gone but they re-listed them. Just search for Wizard101 Gift Card.

---

**La' Dynamite Donuts!** writes: So ok? I play wizard101 sometimes so yah gotta problem with that?

---

**La' Dynamite Donuts!** writes: SO i play wizard101. Nothing wrong with that i play a lot of games... I not a nerd or geek just a gamer GOD!

---

**phenixmaster** writes: him I see theres another gamer god la dynamite donuts,wow weird name for a god,but that's not the reason I came back on this website,I wanna find somebody who's worth the challenge,see everybody I faced lost against me,and i'm only level 25 in kroktopia,lol-but most of them I kill them in one hit,lol-1550 is the damage,i'm no noob or master but i'm strong,if you want to challenge me this is my name,steven nightblade-find me in sunbird,nothing else-and my ristence is 18 and that's all i'm going to say,man when I get the ninja pig gifted card,my ristence will be 24 not 18,and when I'm in th third world,my ristenc probilliy will be 27 or 28,so bri it noobs,hahahah.

---

**[oliviamistflame](http://wizard101)** writes: im going to try going to 4 different stores tommorrow 7-eleven cvs walmart and rite aid if they dont have any i will be so anoind!!

---

**phenixmaster** writes: hey guys,its me steven nightblade again,and I wanna tell you-try out blockbuster stores,there now selling $10.00 gift cards now,so hurry up before its all sold out,and you have to wait for the next load to come in.and my damage I can hit now is in the 2600's so,again bring it on!!!!!!!!!!!!

---

**someguy** writes: man this sucks. i was gonna get one today but there are none in canada im gonna stop playing now

---

**sarah mistflame** writes: I'm from canada and i want a wizard101 gift card and i heard that there is no wizard101 gift card here
i wanna know if its actually true? or if its not i wish wizard101 will do something about it i really want to be a member

---

**Scarlet Dawnheart** writes: I check every where at seven eleven here at canada and i didnt saw any wizard101 gift card i wish they do some thing about it...

---

**phenixmaster** writes: well guys they did do something about it,so now you can buy wizard 101 gift cards at walmart,blockbuster,seven eleven,best buy,and rite aid.so hurry up people,you can become a member now.almost anywhere now,soon all the stores will have them.its just a matter of time before they do.so hurry up,and buy one today.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: I get mine at Best Buy :)

---

**japer** writes: im just amd i went to 7-eleven and they where sold out!!!!so i just walked 30 minutes a lone in the dark for nothing......:{

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: :(

---

**isaiah jadewraith** writes: I am a level 12 pyromancer with a storm background. I too own the clockwork golem spider. got it from the hard tower in ravenwood. it gives it at random apparently. very rare pet i think. but i was gonna say i went to cvs, rite aid, wal-mart, gamestop, eb games, and none had the gift card. i was gonna get one for me girl as a get well present. im going to wal-mart to check it out now, i hope they got sum. and whats up with the bazaar selling soo many good items to the myth school? i am fire and all the shoes are weak. my girl is myth and she is same level as me and got 1000 sumthing health and 140 mana and 18 resistance and 16 strengh! way too strong!

---

**[brandon dunedust](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Hey i'm too looking foreward to getting a $20 giftcard and will be really angry if stores they don't have them and i hope everybody else who wants them gets them. :)


peace out home dog

---

**trevor spellmender** writes: i wanna gift card 2 ya no where i get one??????????????

---

**trevor spellmender** writes: um, i gonna get a gift card today, i think
 in rite aid and 7-11

---

**The Grand ME!** writes: Does anyone know if Gift cards are avalable in Canada? I looked everywhere! well not really... i only looked at the 
7-11's because it's the only store that poped up in the store finder that wasn't insanly far away from me. Please Reply!

---

**carson** writes: I couldn't find any at 7/11 either!But I'm not unhappy because I tried Gamestop and they had them there!They just got a shipment of them 3 days before I arrived there.So if anyone needs a giftcard go to Gamestop/EB Games.(they only have $10 and $20 cards.)

---

**brandon dunedust** writes: i'm in maryland level 18 and rite aid sells the cards i don't think they are sold canada


peace out home dog.

---

**brandon dunedust** writes: poor japer alone for 30 mins in darkness for nothing! thats just one sick 7-eleven!

---

**[abduel](http://wizard101)** writes: i was not nere 7-11 but they had gamestop and that was cool to because the cards had awsome pets like a........and.......

---

**emad** writes: the only place that have it is best buy 20$ damn game stop lied

---

**emad** writes: i tried every damn store website that sell game only best buy in sterling height come on man i thought game stop had it nope 7/11 have free realm rite aid noooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo and of corse best buy have it write to me

---

**wizard101** writes: emad your right i say we talk to wizard101 if you know what i mean

---

**[thanhdat229](http://wizard101girtcardsat7/11)** writes: guys this is terrible, i was going to get a wizard101 gift cards someday but i heard you guys was talking about those cards i hope i will find some at walmart and i hope you guys will find it to .oh i forgot i am new on this website so wizard name is allan iceheart you guys can battle with me someday . and if i dont find these cards i am so gonna kill myself or i could stop play it and never ever play it for my whole life.thank you for reading

---

**[thanhdat229](http://wizard101girtcardsat7/11)** writes: i want it sooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo badddddddddddddddddd

---

**[minion](http://www.lame.com)** writes: GUYS I FOUND SUBSCRIPTION CARDS AND EPIC BUNDLE AT EGAMES! IN CANADA!

---

**[minion](http://www.lame.com)** writes: i mean eb games

---

**[benny](http://wizard101)** writes: i believe that this game is catered to Americans. there are people in other countries that play this game as well. i am from Canada and feel that we should also be able to purchase your gift cards as we have some of the same retail stores as you do. i believe that everyone who plays this game should be able to have all access to the same things as the Americans do. we should be able to access it through the wizard101.com by paying crowns for them, since we still are paying into the game site. or access it trough our credit cards as we do buying the crowns. we should be able to order from the states to get it.

---

**[minion](http://www.lame.com)** writes: pleasei want an epic bundle soooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo FREAKIN BAD FOR THE PRESTIGIOUS GEAR

---

