Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2007](/posts/2007/westkarana.md) > [February](./westkarana.md)
# Spamming the Job Spammers

*Posted by Tipa on 2007-02-12 15:44:03*

I'm getting a little tired of job spammers. It's time to fight back. Letter to someone who has spammed me three times with the same spam...


Well, to be honest, I didn't fill it out because you didn't mention a specific job you thought I might fit. Instead, it looks like you want me to do all the work here to put myself into your resume database so that you can potentially place it where I might be applying through another avenue, since I don't know specifically where it would go.

That, plus the fact that this is a form letter complete with fake-sounding testimonials and you have a cheap-looking website filled with stock photography and not much else, has made me reluctant to respond.

The testimonials deserve special mention. From John, Anuj and Miguel -- trying to get a good ethnic mix? I don't see one from a woman there, so let me contribute one:

> "Since starting with York Solutions, I have grown to accept Jesus Christ as my savior and look to His absolute power to free me from the sins of Joblessness and Hunger. York Solutions has been the meaning in my life for which I have been searching. Thanks to York Solutions for showing me the Way. And the sex has never been better! - Brenda H."


--- here's the original letter.

 I noticed that you did not fill out our **brief online application** we sent you two weeks ago.

I just wanted to **remind you** that we are **still searching** for qualified IT people to fill positions in the following areas:




|
 

 + Oracle

 + Clarify

 + JD Edwards

 + Remedy

 + PeopleSoft

 + Networking/Systems

 + Embedded Systems



 |
 

 + .Net

 + Siebel

 + EDI

 + Lawson

 + SAP

 + Information Security

 + Web Development



 |
 

 + IT Governance

 + Quality Assurance

 + Business Intelligence

 + EAI

 + SQL Server

 + Web Services

 + General IT



 |




 * To submit your resume for any of our available positions, including general IT positions, please complete our  **online resume submission form** by clicking here [Submit Resume](http://www.yorksolutions.net/resumesubmitIT.asp?id=2934667&type=2&h=5364272). 


 * By filling out our form as completely and accurately as possible, we are better able to match your skills with our requirements and place you in one of the following scenarios:

***  *Project based consulting projects***

***  *Supplemental staffing situations***

***  *Contract for hire opportunities***

***  *Direct hire placement***



As a result of our focused approach, we have hired candidates with nearly every IT background possible. **Hear what other IT professionals have to say about us:**

"I'm an Oracle DBA, and two weeks after submitting my resume, I had a contract to hire position near my home. Relocating wouldn't have mattered, but York was able to match my profile to their available job opportunities. I couldn't have been more pleased." --John W.

"As an Embedded Systems Engineer, I was looking for available opportunities. I submitted my resume through York and have been on project now for three months." --Anuj N.

"I was nearing completion on my previous project, when York contacted me. Thanks to them, I found myself in a new position as a Sr. Program Manager soon after. Not to mention, I felt welcomed with the goodies they sent me my first week on the job. They really made me feel appreciated." --Miguel H.

Thanks for helping us match qualified professionals with jobs nationwide!
## Comments!

**[Adele](http://www.adelecaelia.blogspot.com)** writes: LOL... Did they respond to that?

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Actually, I didn't have the nerve to send it :P

---

**[Amber](http://ambernight.org)** writes: Getting to the party a little late, but LOL! Sign me up with York, the sex with my current employer has been lousy...

---

