Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2009](/posts/2009/westkarana.md) > [May](./westkarana.md)
# Wizard 101: The Builder Turtles find their names!

*Posted by Tipa on 2009-05-04 18:06:23*

That contest all we Wizard 101 fansites had last week? Where we named the Builder Turtles for Wizard 101 player housing? The votes are in, the challenges have been made, the lawyers for all sides have counted and re-counted the votes, and the Spiral Supreme Court has made their ruling, and here are the names of your Builder Turtles!

> Well let me start by saying, we have some very popular turtles! Thousands upon thousands of you submitted your name suggestions for the new Castles & Lands Turtle representatives, and here are the results:

 * Wizard101 Winning Name for the Wizard City Turtle: Buxley Turtleton
> 

 * Wizard101Central Winning Name for the Krokotopia Turtle: Digby Hammershell
> 

 * West Karana Winning Name for the Marleybone Turtle: Tortimer T. Shellington
> 

 * Friendly Necromancer Winning Name for the MooShu Turtle: Kame
> 
 * Wizard101 Twitter Winning Name for the Dragonspyre Turtle: Ivan Ironshell

> 

> 
We’ve contacted the winners and the runners up, and we tried to reach all of you, however many players did not submit a valid account name.

Thank you to all our fansites who helped us in this contest endeavor.

Congratulations to everyone!

See you in Wizard City.

~Professor Greyrose





## Comments!

**[Quantize](http://powerpipplay.blogspot.com/)** writes: lol, I love the Marleybone turtle.

---

**[Jason](http://turtles.com)** writes: I love my turtle Herry!

---

