Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2007](/posts/2007/westkarana.md) > [April](./westkarana.md)
# 27 Degrees

*Posted by Tipa on 2007-04-07 11:35:48*

That's how cold it was in Hartford, Connecticut yesterday morning. That's how cold it was when I spent four hours in and waiting for buses because my car had finally made it to Connecticut from California and I had to return my rental then go home. Slowly.

Coincidentally, that very night I flew back to California to finish up things here and to pick up our new cat. (It was 59 degrees in Los Angeles when I landed at 9:30 PM. By the way.)

My cat, Nostromo, is getting old and he has a skin condition that I'm very allergic too. My daughter suggested she take him, and I take one of her cats... so... tomorrow Isis returns to the frigid East with us, and Nostromo gets to stay in California.

Pretty clever cat!

I'm sure I'll enjoy Connecticut more when spring finally arrives. But here in Escondido, it's warm, I'm wearing a tank top, and the hills are lushly green (oh, but they'll turn brown soon).

My son just called me because suddenly all the wireless connections in the apartment complex went dead all at once. My two years of solving random mysterious computer problems for a living told me just what to ask:

 2. Turn it off and on.

 4. Is the wireless button on?



Oh yeah, that was it. I didn't even get to "Is it plugged in?".

 
## Comments!

**Kesselia** writes: Hehe. I'm from upstate NY and I live in Texas now. ..you think 27 degrees is cold?? HAHAHAHAHA!!!!
We got snow in Texas...snow!!!! We never get snow in central Texas. Hardly Ever!!! But yet last night it started with freezing rain, then sleet, then...omg can it be? snow!! I had to call my parents who live in Florida who laughed at me. I have eighteen plus years of winters under my belt including three in the province of Bavaria in Germany. You'd think I"m used to it by now but nope...even my 7 year old son asked me, "mommy what is the white stuff falling outside and can we go to the park?" I was laughing with tears coming from my eyes. I woke up around 5am this wonderful Easter morning to find a foot of snow outside...the thick sticky heavy kind...had fun driving to morning church services...oh yeah btw...they have no idea what a salt truck or snowplow is here this far south...hehe. Makes for interesting driving coupled with the fact there is STEAM coming up from the roadways to boot. 

Happy Easter and enjoy the winter in Connecticut. I'll be sharing it with you here in Texas. =) If I get time I'll send you some sunshine if we ever ours back =/

---

**[Adele](http://www.adelecaelia.blogspot.com)** writes: Aww at kitty!

---

