Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2008](/posts/2008/westkarana.md) > [August](./westkarana.md)
# New hot zones for EverQuest

*Posted by Tipa on 2008-08-20 19:02:03*

As expected, SOE has made a whole new set of hot zones for nearly all levels. There are some old favorites, and a couple of new ones in the list. Hot zones give a substantial bonus to combat experience, and usually have some unique drops as well to encourage people to come to the zone.

20 -- Lake of Ill Omen -- great zone full of solo and group content
25 -- Feerrott -- The area outside the Temple of Cazic-Thule is particularly good
30 -- Frontier Mountains -- even without the hot zone experience, the Mountain Giant Fort is great xp. With it, even better.
35 -- Tower of Frozen Shadow -- an old favorite.
40 -- Lower Guk -- a great place for a group that doesn't mind pulls of five to ten frogs at a time.
45 -- Wakening Lands -- the thick trees make this less than ideal, but the armor camps have easy pulls and decent loot.
50 -- Old Sebilis -- one of EQ's most popular and largest dungeons.
55 -- Blackfeather Roost -- Not my favorite zone, and having to do quests to go to each island makes this hard to navigate.
60 -- Plane of Storms -- spent DAYS here working on Bastion of Thunder keys, a fun zone with many different things to see and monsters to kill.
65 -- Sunderock Springs -- wonderful quest zone.
70 -- Riftseeker's Sanctum -- great place to bring a group, find a good spot and just pull to the pleasing sound of dings.

## Comments!

**[Hudson](http://hudshideout.blogspot.com/)** writes: Oh man Lake of Ill Omen back to a hot zone, how I miss those days outside the Windmill and Sarnak Fort, good stuff!

---

**[Sisca](http://www.gnomedepot.net)** writes: So when do these go into effect and does that change Nostalgia's plans for this week?

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: They are in effect now and we've changed Friday to Plane of Storms :) I like PoS way better than Riwwi anyway.

---

**Fuan** writes: Just curious -- if the guild is all about nostalgia, why head to a hot zone to accelerate the progress?

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Just hurrying to 60, where we will stop for a few months while we go through Kunark, Velious and Luclin.

---

**Incognito** writes: "Oh man Lake of Ill Omen back to a hot zone, how I miss those days outside the Windmill and Sarnak Fort, good stuff!"

HA I wish we could go back to wearing All All Jboots, All All DE masks and Rubicite breastplates, and this guy misses those days? *shakes head*

(Rubicite Breastplate stopped dropping when Kunark came out, FYI)

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Heh.... I remember all the people who thought they were so uber because they were in full Rubi...

---

**[N2](http://X)** writes: i miss masks of deception too :(

---

