Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2020](/posts/2020/westkarana.md) > [August](./westkarana.md)
# Blaugust #18: The Island of Unfinished Games

*Posted by Tipa on 2020-08-18 07:39:34*


Sorry, I just spent the last half hour looking for exactly the best song I remembered from Martin Mull which was... perfect for this writing prompt. And that took me down a rabbit hole with Martin jamming with Glen Campbell (awesome!), and then I got to watching more YouTube and now it's forty minutes until work and I have a blog post to write.



I get distracted easily, and today's prompt, from [Nogamara of Battle Stance](\"https://battlestance.org/2020/08/18/should-i-stay-or-should-i-go-now/\"), is all about that:




> Do you “finish” games/hobbies/projects and move on or do you come back to the same things again and again?



The header image says it all, for me. Vivi of Final Fantasy IX? Never finished the game. Chrono Trigger? Never finished it. Perler? Made lots of bead art, still have boxes of supplies left, haven't touched it in years.



I always seem to get distracted by something else. If something can keep my interest, I'll finish it, but I won't look back. Horizon: Zero Dawn was a great game, I played and played it, but by the time the DLC came out, I was over it. I haven't been back to Red Dead Redemption 2 yet, either.



It doesn't help that I live with someone who is no better at sticking with things than I am.



We both started EverQuest together on Aradune, but he almost immediately quit. I was really looking forward to going through the classic stuff with him, together, but when he quit, I didn't last much longer.



3D printing -- we both bought 3D printers, but he's quit his and I'm doing my level best to keep my interest up and keep printing things, because this stuff does run into money. I'm lucky in that I have the specific goal of printing and painting everything for the various Gloomhaven games we're playing.



I don't stick with things, and that's a problem. I even abandoned this blog for years -- and I really enjoyed writing. But, I just stopped. I wasn't even sure why.



Actually, I kind of do know why. If I'm not playing something with other people, when I have nobody to share things with or to care one way or the other if I'm doing something, it's hard to keep motivated. I played Fortnite one day, maybe three matches. I played Fall Guys for an hour. Since I didn't know anyone else who played those games, I never went back.



This is why one of the first things I do when I join a new multiplayer game that I really want to succeed at, is to join a guild. I didn't do that in EQ because I was hoping to join one with my boyfriend, and so I had nobody who would say hello when I logged in. Having people to chat with is so important to me. I've played DC Universe Online for a super long time just because the other people who play it are really good friends. If they weren't playing, I guarantee I would have put it away by now.



Anyway, here's the Martin Mull song -- perfect for this prompt -- that most recently got me all distracted:







