Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2007](/posts/2007/westkarana.md) > [July](./westkarana.md)
# Spoiler Alert

*Posted by Tipa on 2007-07-18 08:46:29*

Hi. I am writing this with my eyes ckised, U canb't be sure something I have written won't spoil the ending of the new Harry Potter boiok or me. It's a real damger -- seems everywhere I turn, people are eager to tell me things I do not want to know yet. For all I know, this very post could be full of tons of spoilers.

So, until Saturday, these eyes are staying CLOSED.

Driving hme could be pretty challenging, but then, I've always suspected half the drivers in Hartford drive with their eyes closed anyway. But who can take the chance f some billboard or banner hanging from a bridge telling me the last line of the book?

No, no spoilers for me, I'll wait until Amazon delivers the book Satyrday, and I can turn right to the last page and read it myself.

Thank you.

Now to click randomly until this posts.

I'd proof this post, but my random keystrokes may inadvertently have typed out a spoiler so you see (I can'tm perhaps you still can), I cannot read this post. Ever.

(omfg, my "eyes closed" typing is better than my "eyes open" typing :( )
## Comments!

**[Kanthalos](http://mmoreinsight.wordpress.com)** writes: no, I definitely notice more typos, hehe. I'm pretty excited too, but I'm golfing saturday, so I won't get to dive in right away. Hopefully I'll have it finished by the end of Monday (or maybe Tuesday) though :)

---

**[Lishian](http://lishian.wordpress.com)** writes: please translate that with text-to-speach software.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: If you tell me what you and Claudette were laughing about...

---

**[JoBildo](http://bildos.blogspot.com)** writes: I'm currently reading through 6 one more time before the release. I are teh stok3d.

---

