Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2009](/posts/2009/westkarana.md) > [December](./westkarana.md)
# Wizard101: School House press release

*Posted by Tipa on 2009-12-14 08:02:19*

This just in from Professor Greyrose:


> **School Themed Castles & Lands have arrived in the Spiral, along with Felix Navidad and lots of festive decorations!**

Do you want to live in a tower of Fire, a tree house or a Jules Verne-inspired Storm house? Now you can! Next time you log in to Wizard101 the game, click the SHOP button on your screen and look for the new house tab. There you can see new Castles & Lands for each of the Ravenwood Schools; Storm, Myth, Life, Ice, Fire, Death and Balance. Each Castle can be previewed with the small magnifying glass icon that appears when you select a house in that tab.

These houses will have space for 250 items outside and 250 items inside! These houses do count towards your total of three houses per character, so players who already have three houses will have to sell one in order to purchase one of these School themed houses. 

Coincidentally, Felix Navidad has finally arrived in the Spiral, better late than never! He brings with him an assortment of items to purchase for the Yuletide season, and he will only be in the Spiral for a short time. Like all our other holiday shopkeepers, he can be found near the fountain in the Wizard City Shopping District, and decorations can be found in the Ravenwood Commons.

For more information about small changes and updates that were made, please see our [December Patch Notes](https://www.wizard101.com/game/community/patchnotes).



## Comments!

**Samuel FireHunter** writes: Um... you called it "Wuzard101" is this just a common mistake? Sorry if I feel harsh.
 Best Regards,

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: Whoops! Thanks for the heads up and your sharp eyes

---

**[Tesh](http://tishtoshtesh.wordpress.com/)** writes: These look very cool. Many thanks for your posts on them these last couple of weeks. I'm a bit saddened personally that they are so expensive, but I think they are a brilliant addition to the game.

---

**isaiah** writes: Same here. It is 100,000 in gold, but 10,000 in crowns.

---

**kirbness** writes: you actually are quoted on the 101 patch login as saying no battle is ever the same. I could not disagree more! EVERY time I have a chance to finish a battle with one nuke I fizzle and have to go three or more fucking rounds because, that happened to be the only nuke in my hand and now i gotta heal myself and cast a bunch of shields before I can get another nuke to end this fucking battle!

EVERY fucking time! no battle is the same my ass.

---

**[Tipa](https://chasingdings.com)** writes: lol... well, okay, they are all different for ME. I should get them to amend that :/

---

**Fuzzy** writes: kirb, are you playing with Lightning cards? ;)

You can also use wand ray spells (100% accuracy), an Accuracy card (+10% accuracy to next spell), or accuracy-boosting armor (there was a post here that mentions it).

---

**[LUN](http://wizard101)** writes: how do you get a sword saint outfit by code in wizard101?

---

