Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2006](/posts/2006/westkarana.md) > [January](./westkarana.md)
# Nationstates Update

*Posted by Tipa on 2006-01-16 00:00:00*

My economy was crumbling, people were unhappy: I had to make deals with big business. My utopian vision of a [Dryroot](http://www.nationstates.net/dryroot) where free peoples sustain themselves in small, nomadic communities became a relic that had to be abandoned. The environment is still wonky, led, I suspect, by pollution from nearby industrial nations, but I will work on that when I can.

*The Nomadic Peoples of Dryroot is a large, safe nation, renowned for its compulsory military service. Its compassionate population of 23 million are fiercely patriotic and enjoy great social equality; they tend to view other, more capitalist countries as somewhat immoral and corrupt.*

*The enormous government juggles the competing demands of Education, Religion & Spirituality, and Law & Order. The average income tax rate is 34%, but much higher for the wealthy. A large private sector is led by the Book Publishing industry, followed by Trout Farming and Information Technology.*

*The automotive industry soaks up huge government handouts, meat-eating is frowned upon, a large-scale revitalization of the education system is underway, and the government is attempting to revitalize a gutted private sector. Crime -- especially youth-related -- is relatively low, thanks to a well-funded police force and progressive social policies in education and welfare. Dryroot's national animal is the chocobo and its currency is the gil.*

This weekend, I chose to dismiss both calls to raise and lower taxes. I am not convinced that lowering business taxes will be a good thing.

The UN has on the table a resolution repealing the Law of the Sea resolution, which addressed the use of international waters and defined their boundaries. The member nations seem to vote FOR every resolution, even if it repeals one they previously passed. I voted against it, and [here is my debate](http://forums.jolt.co.uk/showthread.php?p=10258775&posted=1#post10258775) on the matter:

*The basic assumption of this resolution is to state that the UN has no authority to pass resolutions and act upon them, since not all nations are members of the UN.*

*That's an interesting point. We, as members of this august body, voluntarily bind ourselves to the decisions rendered here. But we do not exist in a vacuum; we are surrounded by neighbors which do not adhere to UN policy, and in fact, completely disregard it.*

*Rather than repealing the Law of the Sea, which is certainly the proper jurisdiction of the UN, we should rather amend it to take into account non-signatory nations.*

*Otherwise, I see a time in the future when every resolution passed by these United Nations is summarily repealed with the argument that there exist nations outside the UN and not bound by it.*

*Tarena Schlosschild*

*Prime Minister*

*Nomadic Peoples of Dryroot*

If any reader starts playing Nationstates, and is in the South Pacific region, endorse Dryroot and I will endorse you in return.
