Back to: [West Karana](/posts/westkarana.md) > [2006](/posts/2006/westkarana.md) > [January](./westkarana.md)
# A Seer, a Sage and a Champion walk into a bar...

*Posted by Tipa on 2006-01-20 00:00:00*

Someone posted a long description of a guild he was starting, that separated the classes into three categories, Seers, Sages and Champions. Then he followed it up with a next post which said, simply, *"A Seer, a Sage, and a Champion walk into a bar...."*

Dunno. Sounded like a challenge to me! So I wrote a joke to go along with it...

-----

A undead Sage, a troll Seer and a tauren Champion walked into a bar and ordered a flagon of ale and three glasses. The bartender set them up and went about his business as the three sat quietly for a moment.

After awhile the Seer poured the ale into the glasses of his two companions, then sat down, leaving his own glass empty.

The Sage thought for a second, then emptied his glass into the Champion's glass.

After several minutes of thought, the tauren took the glass, downed it in one gulp, and belched.

At this, the three of them stood up and left the bar.

The next day, the three returned, and the bartender asked what they were doing the day before.

The Seer said, I poured drinks for my fellows as thanks to them for being strong companions, and in honor of the allegiances that bind us together. I wasn't surprised that the Seer would give his to the tauren, as being Forsaken, he needs neither food nor drink. I imagine the Earthmother was pleased with her Champion's offering. It was a very spiritual moment.

The Sage said, ah, is that it, then? I was under the impression that you had detected the bottle was poisoned, and that was the reason you would not drink any yourself. Not knowing if the bartender was our assassin or an unwitting pawn to someone else's devious plan, I gave mine to the Champion so that the bartender here would not take offense, knowing the Champion's greater mass and strength would better be able to bear the poison than either of us.

The bartender protested that he would never poison his customers, and the Sage nodded, mollified. The bartender looked to the Champion expectantly. Your friend, the Seer, claimed you made an offering to the Earthmother, while your other companion, the Sage, felt you would best resist the poison.

The Champion looked at the other two. I guess I wasn't payin' much attention. I just figured, hey, free beer!
